become a petty despot in interpreting what these laws and policies mean and when they should apply. In this Context, calling something a "need" categorically is playing with fire. Many complaints that some basically good government policy has been applied stupidly may fail to address the underlying problem of categorical laws in an incremental world. There may not have been any intelligent way to apply categorically a policy designed to meet desires whose benefits vary incrementally and ultimately cease to be benefits. By its very nature, as a study of the use of scarce resources which have alternative uses, economics is about incremental trade-offs-not about "needs" or "solutions." That may be why economists have never been as popular as politicians who promise to solve our problems and meet our needs. WHAT IS "WASTE"? Although efficiency is what economics is all about, there are many false notions as to what constitutes "efficiency." Some think that it can be reduced to output per man-hour or to more miles per gallon or larger crops per acre. It cannot. Efficiency is inescapably bound up with what people want-and at what cost. Even an apparently scientific question like the efficiency of an automobile engine rests ultimately on what you want the car to do. Otherwise, all automobile engines are 100 percent efficient, in the sense that all the energy they get from gasoline is used, whether in moving the car forward, overcoming internal friction in the engine, shaking the car body randomly, generating heat that is radiated out into the air, etc. It is only after you define what you want as moving the car forward that the efficiency of different engines can be compared in terms of what percentage of their power is used for that particular purpose. When a third party defines efficiency for other people, that often conflicts with what those other people prefer in their own individually differing circumstances. For example, there have been many laments about Americans using gasoline in "wasteful" ways during the 1980s and 1990s, as contrasted with their more "fuel-efficient" behavior in the 1970s. But the reason for the change was that the real price of gasoline was lower in the 1980s and 1990s, reflecting large increases in both the immediate supply and the known reserves of petroleum in the world. Consumers were responding to the changing realities conveyed by prices, rather than to the fashionable but unsubstantiated alarms conveyed by words in the media and in politics. During the 1970s, an international oil cartel-the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)-deliberately cut back on petroleum production, disrupting economies around the world. In the United States, government price controls turned a minor adjustment into a major shortage. By the 1990s, new discoveries of petroleum deposits and the weakening of the OPEC cartel had the world awash in oil, with the real price of gasoline hitting an all-time low. It is not wasteful to increase one's use of resources that have become more abundant. That is precisely what is