subsidence for all at a poverty level was referred to as "the iron rice bowl" and it was egalitarian. When the new leader, Deng Xiaoping, announced a new policy of seeking to raise the economic level of the country as a whole, he said: "Let some people get rich first" by allowing the kinds of incentives that exist in prosperous capitalist countries. This policy led to rapid growth rates for China's economy, with spectacular results for particular regions, sectors and individuals. The reasons for growing inequalities, were not just that those left out of these experimental reforms did not experience the same prosperity, but also that to some extent enterprises in the state-owned and state-run sector suffered from competition with more efficient private enterprises. While about 9 percent of the people in China's cities lived below the official poverty level of 1,800 yuan in annual income-$217 in American money-the percentage was much higher in particular cities. For example, the poverty rate was 30 percent in the city of Xian, with 2.7 million people and was even more widespread "in some northeastern cities that are home to many of the worst-performing state-owned industries," according to The Economist. Here 60 percent of the 1.8 million people in the city of Shuangyashan lived below the official poverty level. In short, the rising prosperity of China was accompanied by growing internal inequalities, as has happened in other countries at various times in history. It would be a mistake to regard a given level of inequality at a particular time in this on-going process as a permanent inequality. That is not necessarily so for a nation any more than it is for individuals or families. As market reforms spread through China, more regions, sectors, and populations in China began to share in the resulting prosperity by becoming more productive in response to changing incentives. In India, differing levels of economic development in different regions likewise led to differences in income in general and different levels of poverty in particular. At the end of the twentieth century, the percentage of the population of India that lived below that country's official poverty level was 47 percent in the state of Orissa but only 6 percent in the Punjab. The alternative to uneven economic development, and the income inequalities this entails, can be egalitarian stagnation in poverty. In an ever changing economy with new and more productive technologies emerging unpredictably and more efficient methods of organization being devised, to keep workers employed where they are already working is to force society to forgo the economic benefits of such new developments. Even within a given occupation, technology affects people of different abilities differently. Local entertainers of modest abilities could earn a modest living more easily before motion pictures, television, and compact disks enabled the most talented entertainers in the world to become available to audiences around the world. People thousands of miles away could hear Pavarotti sing or watch Andre Agassi play tennis or Tiger Woods play golf Just