that nobody has to. The efficiency of such an economy comes from the fact that vast amounts of knowledge do not ever have to be brought together, but are coordinated automatically by prices that Convey in summary and compelling form what innumerable people want. h The difference between the limited knowledge of a business executive and the similarly limited knowledge of a government official is that the business executive is receiving instructions from others via the marketplace on what to t;-Whom to supply, and when, with what kinds of fuel, in this case-while the government official is giving instructions to others and compelling them .0 obey. In short, economic decisions are ultimately being directed or controlled by those who have specific knowledge in a price-coordinated economy, while those decisions move in the opposite direction-from those with less knowledge, who are giving orders to those with more knowledge-in a centrally planned economy. The difference is fundamental and profound in its implications for the material well-being of the population at large. During the episodic gasoline shortages of the 1970s, Americans experienced in one industry for a limited period of time the severe economic problems that were common across the board in the Soviet Union for more than half a century. Because such an experience was so rare and shocking to Americans, they were receptive to all sorts of false political explanations and conspiracy theories for such an extraordinary situation, when in fact such situations were common in other countries using government allocation. What was uncommon was for such methods to be used in the United States. The rationale at the time was that reduced oil supplies from the Middle East required government intervention to prevent chaos in American oil markets. Needless to say, politicians were not about to admit that it was precisely their intervention which brought chaos, since the reduction in the total amount of gasoline in the country was just a few percentage points-the kind of reduction in the amount supplied that is routinely handled in all sorts of industries by a small price increase in a free market. Indeed, a previous Arab oil embargo in 1967 had caused no such dislocations because it was not accompanied by the kinds of price controls instituted by the Nixon administration and continued by the Ford and Carter administrations. Nor were there long lines of cars waiting for hours at filling stations in other Western industrial nations or Japan, even though most of these other nations produced a far smaller percentage of their own petroleum than the United States did. These other countries did not have price controls on gasoline, so they did not have the shortages that go with price controls. When government control of gasoline prices was ended in 1981-amid widespread warnings that this would lead to drastically higher prices-what followed was virtually a lesson in elementary economics. Higher prices led to a greater quantity of gasoline being supplied and a smaller amount demanded. Oil exploration shot up and existing wells