personal finance is that financial transactions are for the economy as a whole another way of allocating scarce resources which have alternative uses-allocating them over time, as well as among individuals and enterprises at a given time. Put differently, a society without well-functioning financial institutions has fewer opportunities to create wealth by joining the entrepreneurial talents of people who lack money to the savings of others, in order to finance new firms and industries. Since many, if not most, great American industries and individual fortunes began with entrepreneurs who had very limited financial resources at the outset-Henry Ford, Thomas Edison, Andrew Carnegie, etc.-the ability of poorer societies to follow similar paths are thwarted when they lack the financial institutions to allocate resources to those with great entrepreneurial ability but no money. Such institutions took centuries to develop in the West. Nineteenth-century London was the greatest financial capital in the world, but there were earlier centuries when the British were so little versed in the complexities of finance that they were dependent on foreigners to run their financial institutions-notably the Jews and the Lombards. That is why there is a Lombard Street in London's financial district today. Not only Third World countries, but also some countries in the former Communist bloc of nations in Eastern Europe, have yet to develop the kinds of sophisticated financial institutions which promote economic development. They may now have capitalism, but they have not yet developed the financial institutions that would mobilize capital on a scale that Western countries can. It is not that the wealth is not there. Rather, this wealth cannot be collected from innumerable small sources, concentrated, and allocated without financial institutions equal to the task. Financial institutions facilitate economic development by enabling strangers to transfer billions of dollars among themselves through an intermediary, when few would risk such transfers directly to people whom they have never met. The numerous small entrepreneurs often found in Third World countries have far fewer opportunities to garner the resources needed to expand into the kinds of large-scale businesses that are common in the West. Nor is this a problem that can be solved by simply transferring money to these countries, as numerous failed projects financed by foreign aid have demonstrated. In addition to a financial infrastructure, there needs to be a legal, cultural, and political infrastructure of intangibles, without which the tangible things will not work. Unless the law protects contracts and property rights, huge sums of money are unlikely to be forthcoming for economic development, especially since huge sums of money are often a result of aggregating modest sums of money from millions of people, such as stockholders in giant corporations. Judges and politicians face a constant temptation to intervene in the economy, in order to do something "good" or at least popular, even when that infringes or violates contracts and property rights. At an extreme, property may be confiscated or, as it is phrased politically, "nationalized." Seldom does this lead to a more efficient