unsubstantiated alarms conveyed by words in the media and in politics. During the 1970s, an international oil cartel-the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)-deliberately cut back on petroleum production, disrupting economies around the world. In the United States, government price controls turned a minor adjustment into a major shortage. By the 1990s, new discoveries of petroleum deposits and the weakening of the OPEC cartel had the world awash in oil, with the real price of gasoline hitting an all-time low. It is not wasteful to increase one's use of resources that have become more abundant. That is precisely what is supposed to happen in a price-coordinated economy because that is the most efficient behavior, with efficiency being defined as the most effective way of satisfying people's desires. Waste is no more objectively definable than its opposite, efficiency. The arbitrary assumption that it is serves only to let third parties impose their definitions on other people, who obviously would not be doing the things that observers define as wasteful if they themselves did not see matters differently. Chapter 23 Myths About Markets There are so many myths about markets that only a sample can be presented here. Because the underlying logic of these misconceptions is seldom spelled out, making that logic plain can seem like an exercise in satire. For example, many people argue as if businesses can set prices by an act of will, as if economic activity is a zero-sum process, in which what is gained by some is lost by others, and as if those who favor free market competition are probusiness. All these are demonstrably false beliefs. So is the so-called "trickle down theory." There is also much confusion about morality and markets. MORALITY AND MARKETS The market is as moral or immoral as the people in it. So is the government. The fact that we call one set of people "the market" and another set of people "society" does not mean that the moral or other imperfections of first set of people automatically justify having the second set of imperfect people overruling their decisions. Like economics, the market is not some separate entity with its own values. It is people making their own individual choices and their mutual accommodations. Once it was fashionable to contrast the selfishness of the isolated individual in a market economy with cooperative actions among people with a more communal spirit under various forms of socialism. One reason such rhetorical or ideological fashions no longer have the same effectiveness is the actual track record of socialist systems in practice. What also needs to be considered is the track record of market economies in creating widespread cooperation among people through individual incentives. Such cooperation does not even stop at national borders. The Indian software company Wipro creates and maintains computer systems for the American hardware chain Home Depot and, through the magic of the electronic revolution, telephone calls made by British customers to Harrod's department store in London are answered by Indians living