him down and reduce his maneuverability, making him an easier target for the enemy. In other words, beyond some point, attempts to increase his safety can make his situation more dangerous. RETURN ON INVESTMENT Delayed rewards for costs incurred earlier are a return on investment, whether these rewards take the form of dividends paid on corporate stock or Increases in incomes resulting from having gone to college or medical school. One of the largest investments in many people's lives consists of the time and energy expended over a period of years in raising their children. At one time, the return on that investment included having the children take care of ,the parents in old age, but today the return on this investment often consists ,only of the parents' satisfaction in seeing their children's well-being and progress. From the standpoint of society as a whole, each generation that makes this investment in its offspring is repaying the investment that was made by the previous generation in raising those who are parents today. There are also investments made outside the family that transfer wealth back and forth across the generations. As noted in Chapter 9, income varies greatly with age. People in their forties and fifties tend to have much higher incomes than people in their twenties. People in the older generation often put their money into banks and other financial institutions, which in turn lend it to young people buying homes or getting an education. What this means is that the amount of income that older and higher-income people are entitled to spend is not in fact all spent by them. A significant amount of their money is spent by younger people who borrow through banks, for example, and use their elders' money to pay for mortgages, tuition, and the like. Later, when people in the older generation retire, they begin to consume more than they are currently producing by using money now being repaid to banks and other financial institutions, which share with them the interest and principal they are receiving back from the younger generation, whose incomes have usually been rising over the years. Looking beyond money to the actual goods and services exchanged over the years, the younger generation acquires more cars, houses, education and furniture than they can afford at the moment and the older generation is repaid later in medical care, retirement homes, cruises, and golf carts. Although making investments and receiving the delayed return on those investments takes many forms and has been going on all over the world throughout the history of the human race, misunderstandings of this process have also been long standing and widespread. Sometimes these delayed benefits are called "unearned" income, simply because they do not represent rewards for contributions made during the current time period. Investments that build a factory may not be repaid until years later, after workers and managers have been hired and products manufactured and sold. During the particular year when dividends finally begin to be paid,