money and credit in the economy as a whole, to one degree or another. Because of the powerful leverage of the Federal Reserve System, public statements by the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board are scrutinized by bankers and investors for clues as to whether "the Fed" is likely to tighten the money supply or ease up. An unguarded statement by the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, or a statement that is misconstrued by financiers, can set off a panic in Wall Street that causes stock prices to plummet. Or, if the Federal Reserve Board chairman sounds upbeat, stock prices may soar-to unsustainable levels that will ruin many people when the prices come back down. Given such drastic repercussions, which can affect financial markets around the world, Federal Reserve Board chairmen over the years have learned to speak in highly guarded and Delphic terms that often leave listeners puzzled as to what they really mean. What Business Week magazine said of Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan could have been said of many of his predecessors in that position: "Wall Street and Washington expend megawatts of energy trying to decipher the Delphic pronouncements of Alan Greenspan." In assessing the role of' the Federal Reserve, as well as any other organs of government, a sharp distinction must be made between their stated goals and their actual performance or effect. The Federal Reserve System was established in 1914 as a result of fears of such economic consequences as deflation and bank failures. Yet the worst deflation and the worst bank failures in the country's history occurred after the Federal Reserve was established. The financial crises of 1907, which helped spur the creation of the Federal Reserve System, was dwarfed by the financial crises associated with the stock market crash of 1929 and the Great Depression of the 1930s. Chapter 17 The Role of Government You know, doing what is right is easy. The problem is knowing what is right. -PRESIDENT LYNDON B. JOHNSON A modern market economy cannot exist in a vacuum. Market transactions take place within a framework of rules and require someone with the authority to enforce those rules. Government not only enforces its own rules but also enforces contracts and other agreements and understandings among the numerous parties in the economy. Sometimes government also sets standards, defining what is a pound, a mile, or a bushel. And to support itself, governments must also collect taxes, which in turn affect economic decision-making by those affected by those taxes. Beyond these basic functions, which virtually everyone can agree on, governments can play more expansive roles, all the way up to directly owning and operating all the farms and industries in a nation. Controversies have raged around the world, for more than a century, on the role that government should play in the economy. For much of the twentieth century, those who favored a larger role for government were clearly in the ascendancy. Russia, China, and others in the Communist bloc of