may forgo these advantages of specialization. In the Soviet Union, for example, many enterprises produced their own components, even though specialized producers of such components could manufacture them at lower cost. Two Soviet economists estimated that the costs of components needed for a machine-building enterprise in the U.S.S.R. were two to three times as great as the costs of producing those same components in specialized enterprises. But what does cost matter in a system where profits and losses are not decisive? This was not peculiar to machine-building enterprises. According to these same Soviet economists, "the idea of self-sufficiency in supply penetrates all" the tiers of the economic and administrative pyramid, from top to bottom. Just over half the bricks in the U.S.S.R. were produced by enterprises that 'Gunnar Myrdal, for example, in his Asian Drama referred to a "proliferation of retail outlets and petty traders" in Third World countries in South Asia as being "clearly underutilization of labor." But he provided neither evidence nor analysis to show that the middlemen had alternative uses of their time that were more remunerative to them or more valuable to society. were not set up for that purpose, but which made their own bricks in order to build whatever needed building to house their main economic activity. That was because these Soviet enterprises could not rely on deliveries from the Ministry of Construction Materials, which had no financial incentives to be reliable in delivering bricks on time or of the quality required. For similar reasons, far more Soviet enterprises were producing machine tools than were specifically set up to do so. Meanwhile, specialized plants set up for this purpose worked below their capacity-which is to say, at higher production costs than if their overhead had been spread out over more output-because so many other enterprises were producing these things for themselves. Capitalist producers of bricks or machine tools have no choice but to produce what is wanted by the customer, and to be reliable in delivering it, if they intend to keep those customers in competition with other producers of bricks or machine tools. That, however, is not the case when there is one nationwide monopoly under government control, as was the situation in the Soviet Union. In China's government-planned economy as well, enterprises generally supplied their own transportation for the goods they produced, unlike most companies in the United States that hire trucking firms or rail or air freight carriers to transport their products. As the Far Eastern Economic Review put it: "Through decades of state-planned development, nearly all big Chinese firms transported their own goods, however inefficiently." Although theoretically firms specializing in transportation might operate more efficiently, the absence of financial incentives to satisfy their customers made specialized transport firms too unreliable, both as to times of delivery and as to the care-or lack of care-when handling goods in transit. A company manufacturing television sets in China might not be as efficient in transporting those sets as a specialized transport company would