rates of return in the private financial markets. As The Wall Street Journal put it, these academic institutions "are re-learning the lesson that high returns often are achieved by taking high risks." Even top executives with inside knowledge can go wrong. The former Chief Executive Officer of Yahoo! Inc. sold $25 million worth of that company's stock that he owned in 200l-just before the stock's price shot up 65 percent. That same year, the 400 richest Americans lost a total of $80 billion. Risk and Diversification The various degrees and varieties of risk can be dealt with by having a variety of investments-a "portfolio," as they say-so that when one kind of investment is not doing well, other kinds may be flourishing, thereby reducing the over-all risk to your total assets. For example, as already noted, bonds may not be doing well during a period when stocks are very profitable, or vice versa. A portfolio that includes a combination of stocks and bonds may be much less risky than investing exclusively in either. Even adding an individually risky investment like gold, whose price is very volatile, to a portfolio can reduce the risk of the portfolio as a whole, since gold prices tend to move in the opposite direction from stock prices. A portfolio consisting mostly-or even solely-of stocks can have its risks reduced by having a mixture of stocks from different companies. These may be a group of stocks selected by a professional investor who charges others for selecting and managing their money in what is called a "mutual fund. Where the selection of stocks bought by the mutual fund is simply a mixture based on whatever stocks make up the Dow Jones Industrial average or the Standard & Poor's Index, then there is less management required and less may be charged for the service. Theoretically, those mutual funds where the managers actively follow the various markets and then pick and choose which stocks to buy and sell should average a higher rate of return than those mutual funds which simply buy whatever stocks happen to make up the Dow Jones or Standard & Poor's index. Some actively managed mutual funds do in fact do better than index mutual funds, but in many years the index funds have had higher rates of return than most of the actively managed funds, much to the embarrassment of the latter. On the other hand, the index funds offer little chance of a big killing, such as a highly successful actively managed fund might. A reporter for the Wall Street Journal who recommended index funds for people who don't have the time or the confidence to buy their own stocks individually said: "True, you might not laugh all the way to the bank. But you will probably smile smugly." However, index mutual funds lost 9 percent of their value in the year 2000, so there is no complete freedom from risk anywhere. For mutual funds as a whole-both managed funds and index funds-a