point higher interest than those of the United States, while those of Brazil paid half a point higher than those of Mexico. Brazil's interest rate then shot up another percentage point after the emergence of a left-wing candidate for president of the country. Varying risks are reflected in varying risk premiums added to interest rates. As of April 2003, short-term interest rates ranged from less than 2 percent in Hong Kong to 19 percent in Russia and 39 percent in Turkey. Leaving inflation aside, however, how much would a $10,000 bond that : matures a year from now be worth to you today? That is, how much would you pay today for a bond that can be cashed in for $10,000 next year? Clearly it would not be worth $10,000, because future money is not as valuable as the same amount of present money. Even if you felt certain that you would still be alive a year from now, and even if there were no inflation expected, you would still prefer to have the same amount of money right now rather than later. If nothing else, money that you have today can be put in a bank and earn a year's interest on it. For the same reason, if you had a choice between buying a bond that matures a year from now and another bond of the same face value that matures ten years from now, you would not be willing to bid as much for the one that matures a decade later. What this says is that the same nominal amount of money has different values, depending on how long you must wait to get a return on it. At a sufficiently high interest rate, you might be willing to wait a long time to get your money back. People buy 30-year bonds regularly, though usually at a higher rate of return than what is paid on financial securities that mature in a year or a decade. On the other hand, at a sufficiently low interest rate, you would not be willing to wait any time at all to get your money back. Somewhere in between is an interest rate at which you would be indifferent between lending money or keeping it. At that interest rate, the present value of a given amount of future money is equal to some smaller amount of present money. For example if you are indifferent at 4 percent, then a hundred dollars today is worth $104 a year from now to you. Any business or government agency that wants to borrow $100 from you today with a promise to pay you back a year from now will have to make that repayment at least $104. If everyone else has the same preferences that you do, then the interest rate in the economy as a whole will be 4 percent. What if everyone does not have the same preferences that you do? Suppose that others will lend only when they get back 5