have persuaded Sears or Montgomery Ward to become department store chains. The firing of Robert Wood at Montgomery Ward was all too typical of what can happen to those who tell people things ,they do not want to hear. Years later, during the post-World War II era, a similar fate awaited those executives at Montgomery Ward who tried to tell its chief executive officer, Sewell Avery, that the company needed to establish stores in suburban shopping malls. Avery got rid of these executives but then the market eventually got rid of him, amid great dissatisfaction among stockholders, as his ideas failed the test of competition. Many things that we take for granted as features of a modern economy today were resisted when first proposed and had to fight uphill to establish themselves by the power of the marketplace. Even something as widely used today as credit cards were initially resisted. When Mastercard and Bankamericard first appeared in the 1960s, leading New York department stores such as Macy's and Bloomingdale's said that they had no intention of accepting credit cards as payments for purchases in their stores, even though there were already millions of people with such cards in the New York metropolitan area. Only after the success of credit cards in smaller stores did the big department stores finally relent and begin accepting credit cards-and eventually issuing their own. By 2003, Fortune magazine reported that a number of companies made more money from their own credit card business, with its Interest charges, than from selling goods and services. Sears made more than half its profits from its credit cards and Circuit City made all of its profits from its credit cards, while losing $17 million on its sales of electronic merchandise. What is important is not the success or failure of particular individuals or companies, but the success of particular knowledge and insights in prevailing despite the blindness or resistance of particular business owners and managers. Given the scarcity of such mental resources, an economy in which knowledge and insights have such decisive advantages is an economy which itself has great advantages in creating a higher standard of living for the population at large. A society in which only members of a hereditary aristocracy, a military junta, or a ruling political party can make major decisions is a society that has thrown away much of the knowledge, insights, and talents of most of its people. A society in which such decisions can only be made by males has thrown away half of its knowledge, talents, and insights. Contrast societies with such restricted sources of ability with a society in which a farm boy who walked eight miles to Detroit to look for a job could end up creating the Ford Motor Company and changing the face of America with mass-produced automobiles-or a society in which a couple of young bicycle mechanics could create the airplane and change the whole world. Neither a lack of pedigree nor a lack of academic