by John P. Mckay. The comment on bribes in India is from page 202 of India Unbound by Gurcharan Das, published in 2001 by Alfred A. Knop The comment about the looting of Russian oil companies is from page 57 of Saving Capitalism from the Capitalists by Raghuram G. Rajan and Luigi Zingales. Bribery in Russian universities was reported in the April 18, 2002 issue of The Chronicle of Higher Education, in a story titled "Reports of Bribe-Taking at Russian Universities Have Increased, Authorities Say," by Bryon Macwilliams. The fact that both businesses and international aid agencies are taking the level of bribery and corruption into consideration when deciding where to invest and lend is mentioned on page 65 of the March 2, 2002 issue of The Economist. The comment by Aditya Birla on the problems created by India's bureaucracy are from page 183 of India Unbound by Gurcharan Das. The comment by Soviet economists on the cutting down of forests without reseeding them is from page 109 of The Turning Point by Shmelev and Popov. The ingenious devices used by many affluent northern California, communities to prevent development are explored in articles in Land Use and Housing on the San Francisco Peninsula: 1982 Annual, edited by Thomas M. Hagler and published by the Stanford Environmental Law Society. Complaints about the confiscation of the profits of Soviet enterprises by the government of the U.S.S.R. are from page 261 of The Turning Point by Nikolai Shmelev and Vladimir Popov. Evictions of elderly tenants from cheap hotels in San Francisco in December 1999 were covered in front page stories in the San Francisco Examiner on December 21,1999 and January 14, 2000. The comment on bribes in China and Japan is from page 42 of The Character of Nations by Angelo Codevilla. The ability of the Marwaris of India to rely on each other's word in business is mentioned on page 143 of India Unbound by Gurcharan Das. The role of Jains and Jews in the Antwerp international diamond center was discussed in a story beginning on page Bl of the May 27, 2003 issue of the Wall Street Journal. The story of how unscrupulous landlords exploit and destroy rent controlled apartment buildings is told on page 43 of Zoning, Rent Control and Affordable Housing by William Tucker and in The Ecology of Housing Destruction by Peter D. Satins. The story of the genesis and consequences of President Nixon's wage and price controls is from pages 60 to 64 of The Commanding Heights by Daniel Yergin and Joseph Stanislaw and from an essay by Herbert Stein in the Wall Street Journal of August 25, 1996, page A 12. The comment that educational results "take a long time to come" is from page 313 of India Unbound by Gurcharan Das. The mention of a former EPA administrator's conclusions about removing toxic material is from page 11 of Breaking the Vicious Cycle: Towar Effective Risk Regulation by Stephen Breyer. The effects of small and large