assumed by those who talk about a "trickle-down" theory. The workers must be paid first and then the profits flow upward later-if at all. Chapter 24 Parting Thoughts we shall not grow wiser before we learn that much that we have done was very foolish. -F. A. HAYEK Sometimes the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. In addition to whatever you may have learned in the course of this book about particular things such as prices, commodity speculation, or international trade, you may also have acquired a more general skepticism about many of the glittering words and fuzzy phrases that are mass produced by the media, by politicians, and by others. You may no longer be as ready to believe those who talk about things selling "below their real value" or about how terrible it is for the United States to be "a debtor nation." Statements and statistics about "the rich" and "the poor" may not be uncritically accepted any more. Nor should you find it mysterious that so many places with rent control laws also have housing shortages. However, no listing of economic fallacies can be complete, because the fertility of the human imagination is virtually unlimited. New fallacies are being conceived, or misconceived, while the old ones are still being refuted. The most that can be hoped for is to reveal some of the more common fallacies and promote both skepticism and an analytical approach that goes beyond the emotional appeals which sustain so many harmful and even dangerous economic fallacies in politics and in the media. This should include a more careful use and definition of words, so that statements about how countries with high wages cannot compete in international trade with countries which have low wages do not escape scrutiny because of verbal confusion. High wage rates per unit of time are very different from high labor costs per unit of output, since countries with high wage rates per unit of time often have lower labor costs per unit of output, as a result of having more output per worker. Similarly sloppy use of terms often occurs in media and political discussions of taxation. For example, the growing federal deficits of the 1980s in the United States have often been blamed on the "tax cuts" early in that decade. But, although tax rates per dollar of income were cut, the total tax revenues of the federal government were higher in every year of the 1980s than in any previous year in the history of the country, as a result of incomes growing by more than the tax rates were cut. It was increased spending which led to growing deficits-a fact concealed by sloppy use of the word "taxes," which can refer to either individual tax rates or the total tax revenues of the government. Many economic fallacies depend upon not thinking beyond the initial consequences of particular policies. Restricting the importation of foreign steel will indeed save jobs in the domestic steel industry,