revolutionize their antiquated and bureaucratically dominated telephone system. From a country with only 12,000 telephones for 700 million people, India had by 1990 become a country with 5 million telephones. Before the end of the decade India had nearly 20 million phones and the years-long waiting lists of the past had virtually disappeared. That Pitroda became wealthy during this process is a footnote to history. It is what he did for millions of people in India that was historic. Neither poverty nor caste has died out in India. While most of India's managers and professionals come from upper-caste backgrounds, the modern sectors of the Indian economy have fewer caste barriers. With vast sums of money being able to be made by supplying what people want through a freer marketplace, the cost of discrimination by caste becomes enormous when there are educated and talented individuals who can make a company hugely profitable. The bottleneck has been producing such individuals in an educational system where, as a leading Indian entrepreneur put it, "our schools and colleges were only creating an army of unemployables." Yet the new Indian entrepreneurs also set about creating private education in practical skills in the computer industry. In short, the more market-oriented economy of late twentieth-century India opened new avenues of social mobility for those at the bottom, in contrast to the previous decades of socialist emphasis on helping "the poor" while they remained poor. Individuals and groups have often been accused of reducing the wealth of nations, when in fact they have contributed to its increase. Many highly productive immigrant groups in many parts of the world-the overseas Chinese in Southeast Asia, the Lebanese in West Africa, and the Indians in Fiji, among others-have been accused of draining away the wealth of the countries in which they settled because they have sent money back to members of their families still living in the countries from which they came. But these earnings are almost invariably due to providing goods and services which their customers and clients obviously valued more than the money they paid. On net balance, these productive groups have drained nothing but have added to the wealth of both the countries in which they settled and the countries from which they came. It has not been a zero-sum process. As in many other cases, the economic facts are fairly straightforward and uncomplicated. It is the myths and misconceptions which become complicated, especially those revolving around "income distribution. Fights over which individuals and groups get how big a slice of the pie create the kind of emotions and controversy on which the media, politicians, and intellectuals thrive. But the economic reality is that the main reason most Americans have prospered is that the pie itself has gotten much bigger, not because this group or that group changed a few percentage points in its share. For example, American families in the bottom quintile in income earned 4 percent of the income of all U.S. families in 1967 and