in the first place. When someone invests $10,000, what that person wants to know is what annual rate of return it will bring, whether it is invested in stores, real estate, Or stocks and bonds. Profits on particular sales are not what matter most. It is the profit on the total capital that has been invested in the business that matters. That profit matters not just to those who receive it, but to the economy as a whole, for differences in profit rates in different sectors of the economy are what cause investments to flow into and out of these sectors, until profit rates are equalized, like water seeking its own level. Things can be sold at prices that are much higher than what the seller paid for them and yet, if those items sit in the store for months before being sold, they may be less profitable than other items that have less of a mark-up in price but which sell out within a week. A store that sells pianos undoubtedly makes a higher percentage profit on each sale than a supermarket makes selling bread. But a piano sits in the store for a much longer time waiting to be, sold than a loaf of bread does. Bread would go stale and moldy waiting for as long as a piano to be sold. When a supermarket chain buys $10,000 worth of bread, it gets its money back much faster than when a piano dealer buys $10,000 worth of pianos. Therefore the piano dealer must charge a higher percentage mark-up on the sale of each piano than a supermarket charges on each loaf of bread, if the piano dealer is to make the same annual percentage rate of return on a $10,000 investment. Profit rates tend to equalize, even when that requires different mark-ups to compensate for different turnover I rates among the different products. When the supermarket gets its money back in a shorter period of time, it can turn right around and re-invest it, buying more bread or other grocery' items. In the course of a year, the same money turns over many times in a supermarket, earning a profit each time, so that a penny of profit on the dollar' can produce a total profit for the year on the initial investment equal to what a piano dealer makes charging a much higher percentage markup on an investment that turns over much more slowly. Companies that made the Fortune magazine list of the 500 largest companies in America averaged "a return on revenue of a penny on the dollar" in 2002, compared to "6 cents in, 2000, the peak profit year." Profits on sales and profits on investment are not merely different concepts. They can move in opposite directions. One of the keys to the rise to dominance of the A & P grocery chain in the 1920s was a conscious decision by " the head of the company to cut profit margins on sales, in order