and misconceptions which become complicated, especially those revolving around "income distribution. Fights over which individuals and groups get how big a slice of the pie create the kind of emotions and controversy on which the media, politicians, and intellectuals thrive. But the economic reality is that the main reason most Americans have prospered is that the pie itself has gotten much bigger, not because this group or that group changed a few percentage points in its share. For example, American families in the bottom quintile in income earned 4 percent of the income of all U.S. families in 1967 and this fell to 3.6 percent by the year 2000. Over that same span, however, the median real income of families in the bottom quintile rose by more than $4,000. That is not even counting the fact that most American families in the bottom quintile do not stay there permanently-and, indeed, most are also in the top quintile at some point over the years. The changing allocation of scarce resources which makes continuing prosperity possible may change these percentages back and forth over time, as changing pay and employment prospects direct individuals to where their productivity would be higher and away from where it is lower. But it is changes in productivity and allocation which are crucial to the economic well-being of the population as a whole, not the few percentage point changes in relative shares which attract so much media, political, and other attention. PART IV: TIME AND RISK Chapter 12 Investment and Speculation A tourist in New Yorks Greenwich Village decided to have his portrait sketched by a sidewalk artist. He received a very fine sketch, for which he was charged $100. "Thats expensive," he said to the artist, "but I'll pay it, because it is a great sketch. But, really, it took you only five minutes. "Twenty years and five minutes, " the artist said. Artistic ability is only one of many things which are accumulated over time for use later on. If the earlier sacrifices and risks are ignored, then the reward for what was done within the present time period may often seen exorbitant. Oil wells can repay their costs many times over-but they must also cover the costs of all the dry holes that were drilled in the ground while searching in vain for petroleum deposits before finally striking oil. Add to this the cost of keeping people alive while waiting for their artistic talent to develop, their oil exploration to payoff, or their academic credits to finally add up to enough to earn their degree, and there may be a considerable investment to be repaid. The repaying of the investment is not a matter . of morality, but of economics. If the return on the investment is not enough to make it worthwhile, fewer people will make that particular investment in the future, and consumers will therefore be denied the use of the goods and services that would otherwise have been Produced. No one