one walk per game during the era of the 154-game season. By contrast, when Roger Maris hit 61 home runs in 1961, breaking the record at that time, he was walked less than a hundred times because Mickey Mantle was batting right after him, and Mantle hit 54 home runs that season. There was no percentage in walking Maris to pitch to Mantle with one more man on base. Maris' productivity as a home-run hitter was greater because he batted with Mickey Mantle in the on-deck circle. In virtually all jobs, the quality of the equipment, management and other workers goes into determining a given worker's productivity. Movie stars like to have good supporting actors, good make-up artists and good directors, all of whom enhance the star's performance. Scholars depend heavily on their research assistants, and generals rely on their staffs, as well as their troops, to win battles. Whatever the source of a given individual's productivity, that productivity determines the upper limit of how far an employer will go in bidding for that . person's services. That is the demand side of the equation. Employers seldom bid as much as they would if they had to, because there are other individuals willing and able to supply the same services for less. By the same token, consumers would pay a lot more for their food than they do ,if there were no competing sellers and their only choice was to pay what a monopolist charged or starve. In short, it is the combination of supply and demand which determines pay, as it determines the prices of goods and services in general. PAY DIFFERENCES Wages and salaries serve the same economic purposes as other prices-that is, they guide the utilization of scarce resources which have alternative uses. . Yet because these scarce resources are human beings, we tend to look on wages and salaries differently. Often we ask questions that are quite emotionally powerful, even if they are logically meaningless. For example: Are the wages "fair"? Are the workers "exploited"? Is this "a living wage"? Such questions seldom get asked about the prices of inanimate things, such as a can of peas or a share of stock in General Motors. But people are believed to be entitled to pay that is "fair," even if no one can define what that means. "Exploitation" and "a living wage" are likewise emotionally powerful expressions without concrete meanings. If a worker is living, how can he be receiving less than "a living wage" unless he is, as some have said thoughtlessly, "living below subsistence"? No one likes to see fellow human beings living in poverty and squalor, and many are prepared to do something about it, as shown by the vast billions of dollars that donated to a wide range of charities every year, on top of the additional billions spent by governments in an attempt to better the condition of less fortunate people. These socially important activities occur alongside an economy coordinated by prices,