themselves to the economy as a whole, where labor is one of the scarce resources which have alternative uses. JOB SECURITY Virtually every modern industrial nation has faced issues of job security, whether they have faced these issues realistically or unrealistically, successfully or unsuccessfully. At the most simplistic level, some people advocate that every worker be guaranteed a job, with the government if necessary. In some countries, laws make it difficult and costly for a private employer to fire , anyone. Labor unions try to do this in many industries and in many countries around the world. Teachers' unions in the United States are so successful at this that it can easily cost a school district tens of thousands of dollars-or more than a hundred thousand in some places-to fire just one teacher, even if that teacher is grossly incompetent. Job security laws and policies restrict an employer's ability to layoff workers for economic reasons or to fire them for unsatisfactory work. The obvious purpose of such laws is to reduce unemployment but that is very different from saying that this is their actual effect. Countries with such laws typically do not have lower unemployment rates, but instead have higher unemployment rates, than countries without widespread job protection laws. In Germany, which has some of the world's strongest job security laws, double-digit unemployment rates are not uncommon, while in the United States, where there are no such national laws mandating job security in the private sector, Americans become alarmed when the unemployment rate rises to 6 percent. Although the United States has no national job security laws imposed by government on private employers, the government itself has laws protecting the job security of its own civilian employees who have acquired permanent status and federal judges have lifetime tenure. The very thing that makes a modern industrial society so efficient and so effective in raising living standards-the constant quest for newer and better ways of getting work done and more goods produced-makes it impossible to keep on having the workers doing the same jobs in the same way. For example, back at the beginning of the twentieth century, the United States had about 10 million farmers and farm laborers to feed a population of76 million people. By the end of the twentieth century, there were less than one-fifth this many farmers and farm laborers, feeding a population more than three times as large. Yet, far from having less food, Americans' biggest problems now included obesity and trying to find export markets for their surplus crops. All this was made possible because farming became a radically different enterprise, using machinery, chemicals and methods unheard of when the century began-and requiring far fewer people. Farming is of course not the only sector of the economy to be revolutionized during the twentieth century. Whole new industries have sprung up, such as aviation and computers, and even old industries like retailing have seen radical changes in which companies and which methods have survived. In little