similar social disasters from misunderstanding the basic principles of economics. Even where no money is involved, economic principles may still apply. During the Second World War, Japanese fighter pilots were initially very formidable adversaries for American fighter pilots, who lacked aerial combat experience, such as the Japanese had already gotten while fighting in China and elsewhere. But, as the war went on, the two countries followed different policies with regard to their combat pilots. American pilots were systematically taken out of combat after flying a certain number of missions, and were then used as instructors who could spread some of their experience to new and inexperienced pilots being trained for combat. Meanwhile, Japan followed policies similar to those of its German ally, whose motto was "fly till you die"-a macho approach to war that ignored economic principles. These military policies were also economic policies because aerial combat experience is a scarce and valuable resource which has alternative uses-either in continuing to fly combat missions or training others to fly them. Because of the element of chance in aerial combat, even the top aces can eventually get shot down if they fly long enough. As the war went on and many of the top Japanese fighter pilots were eventually shot down, they were replaced by inexperienced pilots who had to learn the hard way in aerial combat, where small mistakes can be fatal. Meanwhile, American fighter pilots who had been trained by veterans of aerial combat began to get the upper hand. How much the relative skills of the opposing pilots had changed during the course of the war was demonstrated dramatically in an air battle near the end of that war, over the Marianas chain of islands in the Pacific. This became known as "the great Marianas turkey shoot" because American pilots shot down hundreds of Japanese planes while losing a relative handful of their own. By this time, so many of the leading Japanese aces had already been killed that a Japanese fighter pilot who was now given a rare public commendation for his exploits no longer considered that an exalted honor because his potential competitors, the "great pilots of our Navy-Nishshizawa, Ota, Sasai, and others-were dead." In his postwar memoirs, this Japanese ace mentioned that the Americans "had virtually wiped out all our carrier-based planes in the Marianas." Japanese military leaders had not treated aerial combat experience as a scarce and valuable resource. Their failure to allocate this resource efficiently to its alternative uses was a mistake in economics, though there was no money involved-just dire military consequences. CAUSE AND EFFECT Analyzing economic actions in cause-and-effect terms means examining the logic of the incentives being created, rather than simply the goals being sought. It also means examining the empirical evidence of what actually happens under such incentives. The causation at work in an economy is often systemic interaction, rather than the kind of simple one-way causation involved when one billiard ball hits another billiard ball and knocks it