element. One of the reasons for the success of the F. W. Woolworth retail chain was Woolworth's insistence on the importance of courtesy to the customers. This came from his own painful memories of store clerks treating him like dirt when he was a poverty-stricken farm boy who went into stores to buy or look. Ray Kroc's zealous insistence on maintaining McDonald's reputation for cleanliness paid off at a crucial juncture when he desperately needed a loan to stay in business, for the financier who toured McDonald's restaurants said later: "If the parking lots had been dirty, if the help had grease stains on their aprons, and if the food wasn't good, McDonald's never would have gotten the loan." Similarly, Kroc's good relations with his suppliers-people who sold cups, milk, napkins, etc., to (1) A history of McDonald's noted: "On his frequent visits to restaurants, Kroc commonly picked up waste paper on the lot before going inside to see the franchisee." In later years,he hired a staff of inspectors and evaluators who went around to the restaurants. One of these Inspectors, named Gus Karos, "initiated a practice of taking photographs" when there were dirty units. "When he noticed McDonald's litter strewn about the yards in the neighborhood of a store in New Jersey, it was obvious that the operator had ignored the system's requirement for policing the area within a two-block radius of the store. Karos picked up all the litter he could carry, marched into the franchisee's office, and dumped the trash on his desk." John F. Love, McDonald's: Behind the Arches, revised edition, p. 147. McDonald's-had saved him before when these suppliers agreed to lend him money to bail him out of an earlier financial crisis. What is called "capitalism" might more accurately be called consumerism. It is the consumers who call the tune, and those capitalists who want to remain capitalists have to learn to dance to it. The twentieth century began with high hopes for replacing the competition of the marketplace by a more efficient and more humane economy, planned and controlled by government in the interests of the people. However, by the end of the century, all such efforts were so thoroughly discredited by their actual results in countries around the world that even Communist nations abandoned central planning, while socialist governments in democratic countries began selling off government run enterprises, whose losses were a heavy burden to the taxpayers. Privatization was embraced as a principle by such conservative governments as those of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in Britain and President Ronald Reagan in the United States. But the most decisive evidence for the efficiency of the marketplace was that even those who were philosophically opposed to capitalism turned back towards it after seeing what happens when industry and commerce operate without the guidance of prices, profits and losses. WINNERS AND LOSERS Many people who appreciate the prosperity created by market economies may nevertheless lament the fact that particular individuals, groups, industries, or regions of