sell at lower prices. A major anti-trust case can take a decade or more to be brought to a final conclusion. Markets often react much more quickly than this against monopolies and cartels, as early twentieth century trusts found when giant retailers like Sears, Montgomery Ward and A & P outflanked them long before the government could make a legal case against them. Perhaps the most clearly positive benefit of American anti-trust laws has been a blanket prohibition against collusion to fix prices. This is an automatic violation, subject to heavy penalties, regardless of any justification that might be attempted. Whether this outweighs the various negative effects of other anti-trust laws on competition in the marketplace is another question. The more stringent anti-monopoly laws in India produced many clearly counterproductive results before they were eventually repealed in 1991. Some of India's leading industrialists were prevented from expanding their highly successful enterprises, lest they exceed an arbitrary financial limit used to define a "monopoly"-regardless of how many competitors that "monopolist" might have. As a result, India entrepreneurs often applied their efforts and capital outside of India, providing goods, employment, and taxes in other countries where they were not so restricted. One such entrepreneur, for example, produced fiber in Thailand from pulp bought in Canada and sent this fiber to his factory in Indonesia to be exported to Belgium, where it would be made into carpets. It is impossible to know how many other Indian businesses invested outside of India because of the restrictions against "monopoly." What is known IS that the repeal of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act in -(1) Why did A & P not adjust to the new conditions as fast as Safeway? Partly, the answer may be that there are always differences among individuals in how fast they notice changes, realize their implications, and respond. Another factor in the case of A & P was that the company Was owned and operated for nearly a century by the same family, and the death of the last brother to run it in 1951 brought to leadership a man who had served faithfully under the old system. Was such a man at such a time, in the wake of his leader's death, likely to turn the company upside down and throwaway the managerial legacy he had received? 1991 was followed by an expansion of large-scale enterprises in India, both by Indian entrepreneurs and by foreign entrepreneurs who now found India a better place to establish or expand businesses. What also increased dramatically was the country's economic growth rate, reducing the number of people in poverty and increasing the Indian government's ability to help them, because tax revenues rose with the rising economic activity in the country. Chapter 8 An Overview In a society where most people are employees and consumers, it is easy to think of businesses as "them"-as impersonal organizations, whose internal operations are largely unknown and whose sums of money may sometimes be so huge as