were harvested. Then as now, those farmers who did not sign futures contracts with anyone were necessarily engaging in speculation about prices at harvest time, whether or not they thought of themselves as speculators. Incidentally, the deal proved to be disastrous for Heinz when there was a bumper crop of cucumbers, well beyond what he expected or could afford to buy, forcing him into bankruptcy. Years later, he started over again, founding the H. J. Heinz company that continues to exist today. Because risk is the whole reason for speculation in the first place, being wrong is a common experience, though being wrong too often means facing financial extinction. Predictions, even by very knowledgeable people, can be wrong by vast amounts. The distinguished British magazine The Economist predicted in March 1999 that the price of a barrel of oil "may be heading for 55," but in fact the price of oil rose to $25 a barrel by December. Anyone speculating in oil on the basis of The Economist's statement could have been ruined financially. Had they signed a contract in March to sell oil at $10 a barrel in December, they might have expected a profit of$5 a barrel, but they would have ended up with losses of $15 a barrel, which can get very expensive for anyone selling an oil tanker's cargo. Futures contracts are made for delivery of gold, oil, soybeans, foreign currencies and many other things at some price fixed in advance for delivery on a future date. Commodity speculation is only one kind of speculation. People also speculate in real estate, corporate stocks, or other things. For example, the stock of the Internet bookseller Amazon.com rose sharply for years before the company made a cent of profit. Why were buyers bidding up the price of this stock, which had yet to pay a dividend, from a company which as yet had no profits from which dividends might be paid if they wanted to? One reason was the belief that Amazon.com would eventually become profitable. Another reason was that the price of the stock was expected to continue to rise, so that the initial buyers could make a profit by selling to ' subsequent buyers, regardless of whether Amazon.com made a profit or not. This second reason was pure speculation. The full cost of risk is not only the amount of money involved, it is also ; the worry that hangs over the individual while waiting to see what happens. A farmer may expect to get $100 a ton for his crop but also knows that it could turn out to be $50 a ton or $150. If a speculator offers to guarantee to buy his crop at $90 a ton, that price may look good if it spares the farmer months of sleepless nights wondering how he is going to support his family if the harvest price leaves him nothing to cover his costs. Not only may the speculator be better equipped financially to deal with