the Bolshevik revolution, or in a number of African countries after they obtained independence during the 1960s. Some of these African countries, like some of the countries in Eastern Europe, once had such an abundance of food that they were exporters of food before the era of price control and government planning turned them into countries unable to feed themselves. The motivation behind price controls on food may have been to make food affordable to the poor, but affordability did not mean any more food. In fact, it led to less food being available when the prices failed to repay the costs and labor required to grow crops or raise animals. Under the changed incentives created by price controls, farmers tended to produce less food and to keep much of what they produced for themselves and their families. Some farmers even gave up farming entirely as unprofitable, and moved to the city, simultaneously reducing the supply of food and adding to the number of urban consumers of food. None of this is new or peculiar to a modern capitalist economy. Back in the days of the Roman Empire, the emperor Diocletian issued imperial decrees which set the prices of many goods. Then "people brought provisions no more to markets," as a contemporary put it. It would be much the same story nearly two thousand years later in America, when price controls during the Nixon administration led to declining supplies of the goods subject to those controls. In Ghana, the country lost its long-standing position as the world's number one producer of cocoa when the government limited how much money would be paid to farmers growing cocoa-and Ghana regained that position after the disastrous decline in the cocoa crop that followed forced the government to change its policy. Similarly, after the government of India allowed wheat prices to rise, wheat production rose more than 5 percent per year from 1967 to 1977. This not only ended India's historic and catastrophic famines, it produced such a supply of wheat as to allow India to donate food to ease Ethiopia's famine in the 1980s. Failure to supply goods, as a result of political restrictions on the economy, must be sharply distinguished from an inability to produce them. Food can be in short supply in a country with extraordinarily fertile soil, as in post communist Russia that had not yet achieved a free-market economy: Undulating gently through pastoral hills 150 miles south of Moscow, the Plava River Valley is a farmer's dream come true. This is the gateway to what Russians call "Chernozym"-"Black Earth Country"-which boasts some of the most fertile soil in Europe, within three hours' drive of a giant, hungry metropolis . . . Black Earth country has the natural wealth to feed an entire nation. But it can barely feed itself. It is hard even to imagine, in a free market economy, a hungry city, dependent on imports of foreign food, when there is extraordinarily fertile farmland not far away. Yet