understand what happened in England when rent control was extended in 1975 to cover furnished rental units. According to The Times of London: Advertisements for furnished rental accommodations in the London Evening Standard plummeted dramatically in the first week after the Act came into force and are now running about 75 percent below last year's levels. Since furnished rooms are particularly likely to be in people's homes, these represent housing units that are easily withdrawn from the market when the rents no longer compensate for the inconveniences of having renters living with you. The same principle applies where there are small apartment buildings like duplexes, where the owner is also one of the tenants. Within three years after rent control was imposed in Toronto in 1976, 23 percent of all rental units in owner-occupied dwellings were withdrawn from the housing market. Even when rent control applies to apartment buildings where the landlord does not live, eventually the point may be reached where the whole building becomes sufficiently unprofitable that it is simply abandoned. In New York City, for example, many buildings have been abandoned after their owners found it impossible to collect enough rent to cover the costs of services that they are legally required to provide, such as heat and hot water. Such owners have simply disappeared, in order to escape the legal consequences of their abandonment, and such buildings often end up vacant and boarded up, though still physically sound enough to house people, if maintained. The number of abandoned buildings taken over by the New York City government over the years runs into the thousands. It has been estimated that there are at least four times as many abandoned housing units in New York City as there are homeless people living on the streets there. Homelessness is not due to a physical scarcity of housing, but to a price-related shortage, which is painfully real nonetheless. Such inefficiency in the allocation of resources means that people are sleeping outdoors on the pavement on cold winter nights-some dying of exposure-while the means of housing them already exist, but are not being used because of laws designed to make housing "affordable." Once again, this demonstrates that the efficient or inefficient allocation of scarce resources is not just some abstract economic notion, but has very real consequences, which can even include matters of life and death. It also illustrates that the goal of a law-"affordable housing," in this case-is far less important than its actual consequences. Just as rent control reduces the housing stock, so the end of rent control often marks the beginning of private building, as it did in Sweden. In Massachusetts, a statewide ban on local rent control laws in 1994 led to the construction of new apartment buildings in formerly rent-controlled cities for the first time in 25 years. In short, with housing as with other things, less is supplied at a lower price than at a higher price-less both quantitatively and qualitatively. Polls of economists have