of steel imported into the country to compete with domestically produced steel. Of course, this reduction in supply led to higher steel prices within the United States and therefore higher costs for all other American industries that were producing objects made of steel, ranging from automobiles to oil rigs. With American manufacturers paying more than a hundred dollars more per ton of steel, and having to recover such increased costs from increased prices charged the consumers, all these products were at a disadvantage in competing with similar foreign-made products, both within the United States and in international markets. It has been estimated that the gain in domestic American steel production due to import restrictions led to a net loss in the production of domestic American steel products as a whole. In other words, American industry as a whole was worse off, on net balance, as a result of the import restrictions on steel. Nor were workers any better off after import restrictions were imposed in order to "save jobs." When new restrictions were placed on steel imports in 2002, the Wall Street Journal estimated that "Illinois would lose five jobs for every one protected, Ohio three for every one and Pennsylvania and Indiana, two for every one." In short, states in which the production of steel and steel products is concentrated stood to lose jobs, on net balance, as a result of policies designed to save jobs by putting restrictions on the importation of foreign steel. A later study confirmed a net loss of American jobs from steel tariffs. While such steel import restrictions made no sense economically, they made sense politically to those in Washington responsible for creating these restrictions. From a political standpoint, what matters is not what works out best for the country over all. What matters is how vocal and how much political muscle one sector has relative to another. Such economically shortsighted and nationally counterproductive policies are by no means confined to the steel industry or to the United States. Regardless of the particular industry or the particular country, if a million new and well-paying jobs are created in companies scattered all across the country as a result of international free trade, that carries less weight politically than if half a million jobs are lost in one industry where labor unions and employer associations are able to raise a clamor. When the million new jobs represent a few dozen jobs here and there in innumerable businesses scattered across the nation, there is not enough concentration of economic interest and political clout in anyone place to make it worthwhile to mount a comparable counter-campaign. Therefore laws are often passed restricting international trade for the benefit of some concentrated and vocal constituency, even though these restrictions may cause far more losses of jobs nationwide. Chapter 20 International Transfers of Wealth Transfers of wealth among nations take many forms. Individuals and businesses in one country may simply invest directly in the business enterprises of another country. Alternatively, they