efforts in other countries. One of the classic disasters of government planning involved the British government's attempts to grow peanuts in colonial Rhodesia after World War II. Yet ordinary farmers around the world had been deciding for generations where and how to grow peanuts, each on his own particular land, whose individual characteristics were known directly from personal experience. Even a single acre of land usually has variations in its chemical composition and its slope, which determines how water runs off after a rainfall, and may vary as well in the degree to which is it shaded by trees, hills, or other things. All this affects what will grow best where. No officials sitting in London could know land in Africa so intimately. Even a trip to Rhodesia by "experts" could not find out the widely varying qualities of the soil from place to place the way each farmer could on his own plot of land, much less understand all the insects, birds, animals, and rainfall patterns in various localities and what effect they might have on the peanut crop. Yet even an illiterate farmer would almost automatically know such things from experience on his own farm. Theoretically, the experts could have asked each individual farmer in Rhodesia about such things. But, aside from the improbability of experts with university degrees deferring to farmers with much less formal schooling, the accurate transmission of knowledge would depend crucially on how articulate and precise these farmers were in what they said. Since verbal precision is hardly universal, even among highly educated people, this would be a very chancy way to gather information. A price-coordinated economy does not depend on anything so fragile. Each farmer decides individually whether or not to grow peanuts-and how many-at the prices that peanuts can be sold for in the marketplace. These prices are a much more accurate means of communication because each farmer and each buyer of peanuts knows that one mistake in weighing all the various factors can spell economic disaster. When it is no longer a question of talking to strangers, but of protecting your own economic future, there should be no surprise that markets generally work better than government planning. In the Soviet Union as well, what was lacking was not expertise but highly specific knowledge. There were Soviet economists who were as much aware of general economic principles as Western economists were and highly trained experts on various aspects of agriculture. What the U.S.S.R. did not have were decision-making individuals with the same range of highly specific hard facts about each particular farm as an individual farm owner would have at his disposal. Power and knowledge were separated in their central planning system, as in all centrally planned economies. Commercial and industrial enterprise managers knew what the specific equipment, personnel, and supplies at their disposal could and could not do, but central planners in Moscow did not-and it was the central planners who held the power to make the ultimate decisions. Nor could