economy is facing the tough problem of selling what it can produce." A popular, best-selling author of the 1950s and 1960s named Vance Packard expressed similar worries about "a threatened overabundance of the staples and amenities and frills of life" which have become "a major national problem" for the United States." Yet today's output is several times what it was when Professor Harris and Mr. Packard expressed their worries, and many times what it was in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, when others expressed similar worries. Why has this not created the problem that so many have feared for so long, the problem of insufficient income to buy the ever-growing output that has been produced? First of all, while income is usually measured in money, real income is measured by what that money can buy, how much real goods and services. The national output likewise consists of real goods and services. The total real income of everyone in the national economy and the total national output are one and the same thing. They do not simply happen to be equal at a given time or place. They are necessarily equal because they are the same thing looked at from different angles-that is, from the viewpoint of income and that of output. The fear of a permanent barrier to economic growth, based on output exceeding income, is as inherently groundless today as it was in past centuries when output was a small fraction of what it is today. What has lent an appearance of plausibility to the idea that total output can exceed total income is the fact that both output and income fluctuate over time, sometimes disastrously, as in the Great Depression of the 1930s. At any given time, for any of a number of reasons, either consumers or businesses-or both-may hesitate to spend their income. Since everyone's income depends on someone else's spending, such hesitations can reduce aggregate income and with it aggregate demand. So can mismanagement of the money supply by government officials. Moreover, when various government policies generate uncertainty and apprehensions, this can lead individuals and businesses to want to hold on to their money until they see how things are going to turn out. When millions of people do this at the same time, that in itself can make things turn out badly. An economy cannot continue operating at full capacity if people are no longer spending and investing at full capacity, so cutbacks in production and employment may follow until things sort themselves out. How such situations come about, how long it will take for things to sort themselves out, and what policies are best to cope with these problems are all things on which different schools of economists may disagree. However, what economists in general agree on is that this situation is very different from the situation feared by those who foresaw a national economy glutted by its own growing abundance because people lack the income to buy it all. MEASURING NATIONAL OUTPUT The