to be painted with red, oil-resistant paint and the manufacturer had on hand only green, oil resistant paint and red varnish that was not oil-resistant. Disobeying official orders in any respect was a serious offense under Stalin and "I don't want to get eight years," the manager said. When he explained the situation to a higher official and asked for permission to use the green, oil-resistant paint, this official's response was: "Well, I don't want to get eight years either." However, the higher official cabled to his ministry for their permission to give his permission. After a long delay, the ministry eventually granted his request and the mining machinery was finally shipped to the mines. None of these people was behaving stupidly or irrationally. They were responding quite rationally to the incentives and constraints of the system in which they worked. Under any economic or political system, people can make their choices only among the alternatives actually available-and different systems present different alternatives. INCENTIVES VERSUS GOALS Because economics is a study of cause and effect among human beings, it deals with incentives and their consequences. That often leads to radically different conclusions from those reached by people who think primarily or solely in terms of goals. As already noted in Chapter 3, the goal of providing "affordable housing" for the poor through rent control can lead to diverting resources toward the building of luxury housing or office buildings, when the latter are exempted from rent control and therefore offer a rate of return on investment that is higher that what is available by building housing for the poor. In short, the consequences are the exact opposite of the goal. In addition to the incentives that rent control creates for builders, it also creates incentives for tenants, who seek to occupy more housing than they would if they had to pay the full value of that housing, as measured by what others would be willing to bid for it. For landlords, rent control not only constrains their profits-sometimes to zero or below-it creates incentives for them not to maintain the existing housing as well as they would in a free market, where they would have to compete for tenants, rather than in a rent controlled market, where there are more applicants than apartments. Given these incentives and constraints, it is hardly surprising to discover empirically that rent control has been followed by housing shortages, a reduction in the building of new housing, and a faster deterioration of existing housing as it receives less maintenance. It must be emphasized that these are empirical consequences, because Some people seem to think that the role of prices in the economy is simply a theory by those with "faith in the market." However, it was a Swedish socialist-presumably lacking such "faith" in the capitalist market-who said that . rent Control "appears to be the most efficient technique known to destroy a city-except for bombing." He was an economist familiar with the empirical evidence. Another comparison