industries and regions that stand to lose business and jobs because of international competition are almost certain to seek restrictions on imported goods or resources which threaten their particular well-being, however beneficial such international transactions may be to the population as a whole. International movements of goods and investments also restrict the range of options available to particular governments. As noted in Chapter 16, governments have for centuries transferred wealth from the people to themselves by the simple process of issuing inflationary amounts of money and spending the newly created money for whatever the government wanted to finance. With free international movements of wealth-at instantaneous speeds with computerized financial transactions-money and the resources they represent tend to be transferred out of countries whose governments are conducting such clandestine confiscations. Other economically counterproductive policies tend likewise to cause domestic wealth to flow out of a country and foreign wealth to stop coming in. Thus it was a matter of concern to India when the private financial rating agency Standard and Poor's downgraded the rating of the country's currency in August 2001 because of what The Economist magazine called the "shaky finances" of India's government. In California as well, that state's bonds were sharply downgraded by both Moody's and Standard and Poor's, even though the state had a record surplus in its budget, because both these rating agencies recognized that the policies being followed would soon turn that state's huge surplus into a huge deficit-as it did. Both businessmen and politicians who suffer from the operation of free international trade and wealth transfers have every reason to represent their own problems as disadvantages to the country as a whole. No small part of the confusion surrounding international trade has its origins in their attempts to mobilize political support to stop international trade from causing them problems. Such attempts have been going on for centuries, in countries around the world. Most economists today reject most of their arguments, and the economics profession has rejected most of these arguments since 1776, when Adam Smith rebutted them in The Wealth of Nations. There are special circumstances in which special interferences with free international trade can in fact be beneficial-national defense being one obvious example-but that is very different from saying that most of interferences that are advocated are likely to be beneficial. Political leaders have far more control when wealth flows into their countries in the form of "foreign aid"-that is, transfers from national or international agencies to governments-rather than as private investments to private individuals or businesses. But receiving wealth from abroad via the marketplace would require satisfying foreign investors that a project was likely to succeed and that the local legal and political system was one they could rely on when time came to take their earnings out or to take their whole investment out if they wished. Showy projects with only a political pay-off for the government-a sports stadium, a glitzy plaza, or a national airline in a country without enough passengers