central planners, who were in no position to monitor the specific details for thousands of enterprises spread across a huge nation. But this was not an adequate substitute for the incentives of the marketplace, where customers monitored their own specific details. In both countries, the population at large paid the price in a standard of living much below what their country's resources and technology were capable of producing. Chapter 7 Big Business and Government Competitive free markets are not the only kinds of markets, nor are government-imposed price controls the only interferences with the operations of such markets. Monopolies, oligopolies, and cartels also produce economic results very different from those of a free market. A monopoly means literally one seller. However, a small number of sellers-an oligopoly, as economists call it-may cooperate with one another, either explicitly or tacitly, in setting prices and so produce results similar to those of a monopoly. Where there is a formal organization in an industry to set prices and output-a cartel-its results can be like those of a monopoly, even though there may be numerous sellers in the cartel. Although these various kinds of non-competitive industries differ among themselves, their generally detrimental effects have led to laws and government policies designed to prevent or counter these effects. Sometimes this government intervention takes the form of direct regulation of the prices and policies of monopolistic industries. In other cases, government prohibits particular practices without attempting to micro-manage the companies involved. The first and most fundamental question, however, is: How are monopolistic firms detrimental to the economy? MONOPOLIES AND CARTELS Sometimes one company produces the total output of a given good or service in a region or a country. For many years, each local telephone company in the United States was a monopoly in its region of the country and that remains true in some other countries. For about half a century before World War II, the Aluminum Company of America (Alcoa) produced all the virgin ingot aluminum in the United States. Such situations are unusual, but they are important enough to deserve some serious attention. Most big businesses are not monopolies and not all monopolies are big business. In the days before the automobile and the railroad, a general store in an isolated rural community could easily be the only store for miles around, and was as much of a monopoly as any corporation on the Fortune 500 list, even though the general store was usually an enterprise of very modest size. Conversely, today multi-billion-dollar nationwide grocery chains like Safeway or Giant have too many competitors to be able to price the goods they sell the way a monopolist would price them. Just as we can understand the function of prices better after we have seen what happens when they are not allowed to function, so we can understand the role of competition in the economy better after we contrast what happens in competitive markets with what happens in markets that are not competitive. In