money-and don't earn any. From the standpoint of the economy as a whole, the production of inventory uses up resources without adding anything to either the standard of living of the public or the current output of industry. As the Soviet economists put it, "our economy is always burdened by the heavy weight of inventories, much heavier than those that weigh on a capitalist economy during the most destructive recessions." Yet the decisions to maintain huge inventories were not irrational decisions, given the circumstances of the Soviet economy and the incentives and constraints inherent in those circumstances. Soviet enterprises had no real choice but to maintain these costly inventories. The less reliable the suppliers, the more inventory it pays to keep, so as not to run out of vital components.2 Nevertheless, inventories add to the costs of production, which add to the price, which in turn reduces the public's purchasing power and therefore its standard of living. American businesses have inventory practices closer to those of the Japanese than to those that existed in the Soviet Union. The Chrysler division of DaimlerChrysler unloads about 8,000 truck loads of materials at its (2) Far from being excessive under the circumstances, inventories in the Soviet Union sometimes proved to be inadequate, as manufacturing enterprises still ran out of components. According to Soviet economists, "a third of all cars come off the assembly line with parts missing." various plants each day. Closely following the pattern in Japan, DaimlerChrysler keeps only two hours' supply of materials on hand. It can do this only because it can rely on the deliveries needed to keep their production lines operating. American manufacturers whose deliveries to other companies are not on time or not up to specifications can either lose customers or find their customers deducting money when they pay the manufacturer's bill. As the New York Times reported: Increasingly, stores want products packaged in ways that cut the amount of time required to set them up on shelves or racks. And they will deduct a certain amount for each aspect of product delivery, which can quickly add up to thousands of dollars. The computer game manufacturer Sega ended up in a lawsuit when KMart deducted millions of dollars from its bill because of disputed delivery problems. A socialist monopoly faces no such pressures to deliver what is wanted, when it is wanted, and how it is wanted. The reason General Motors can produce automobiles, without producing any tires to go on them, is because it can rely on Goodyear, Michelin, and whoever else supplies their tires to have those tires waiting to go on the cars when they come off the production lines. If these suppliers failed to deliver, it would of course be a disaster for General Motors. But it would be even more catastrophic for the tire companies themselves. To leave General Motors high and dry, with no tires to go on its Cadillacs or Chevrolets, would be financially suicidal to a tire company, since