of stores selling groceries as Safeway. Many other corporations that once dominated their fields have likewise fallen behind in the face of changes or have even gone bankrupt. For decades, the Graflex Corporation produced most of the cameras used by press photographers. Movies and newsreels of the 1930s and 1940s almost invariably showed news photographers using a big, bulky camera with a bellows called a Speed Graphic, produced by Graflex. Then, in the early 1950s, outstanding photographs of the Korean war were made with a 35mm Leica camera, using lenses produced by a Japanese manufacturer that also made a new camera called the Nikon. Advances in lens design and films now made it possible for newspaper and magazine photographers to take pictures with smaller cameras that had enough sharpness and detail for their pictures to compete with pictures taken by much bulkier cameras. Within a decade, smaller cameras rapidly replaced Speed Graphics and other large cameras made by the Graflex Corporation. The last Speed Graphic was produced in 1973 and the Graflex Corporation itself became extinct, after decades of dominating its field. Similar stories could be told in industry after industry. Pan American Airlines, which pioneered in commercial flights across the Atlantic and the Pacific, went out of business in the wake of the deregulation of the American airline industry in the 1970s. Famous newspapers like the New York Herald Tribune, with a pedigree going back more than a century, stopped publishing in a new environment, after television became a major source of news and newspaper unions made publishing more costly. Between 1949 and 1989, the number of newspapers sold daily in New York City fell from more than 6 million to less than 3 million. The Herald- Tribune was one of many local newspapers across the country to go out of business with the rise of television. The New York Daily Mirror, with a daily circulation of more than a million readers in 1949, went out of business in 1963. By 2003, three of the four American newspapers with daily circulations of a million or more were newspapers sold nationwide-USA Today, The Wall Street Journal and the New York Times. In fourth place, the Los Angeles sold just over a million copies. Back in 1949, two local newspapers in New York each sold more than a million copies daily-the Daily Mirror at 1,020,879 and the Daily News at 2,254,644. The role of television was apparent in the fact that it was the afternoon newspapers that suffered the greatest declines In circulation. Before, people caught up on events of the day by reading afternoon papers on their way home from work. Now they waited until they got home and turned on television. Smith-Corona dominated the typewriter industry for decades, but then laptop computers appeared on the scene and displaced portable typewriters, and desktop computers began displacing other typewriters. Like A & P before it, Smith-Corona began losing millions of dollars under changed conditions. It went five years in a row