stores, while Sears and Safeway plunged ahead with expansion into such areas, to which much of the most affluent population was now moving. In this case, those who gambled won and those who played it safe lost. In other cases under other circumstances, those who expanded met disaster. The W. Grant variety store chain, once one of the biggest retailers in America during the first half of the twentieth century, became in the 1970s one of the biggest bankruptcies in the history of the country, after financing a costly expansion which did not work out. Grocery stores and department stores were not the only businesses presented with a radically changed environment as a result of the rapid increase of automobile ownership during the post-World War II boom and suburbanization. Although urban newspapers suffered huge declines in circulation, and many leading big-city papers went out of business, suburban newspapers had dramatic increases in their circulation. Changes were equally dramatic in the fast-food industry. McDonald's fast-food restaurants were entirely a postwar phenomenon, going from one hamburger stand in southern California operated by the McDonald brothers in 1955 to 4,000 nationwide just 20 years later and 8,000 a decade after that. By 2001, there were more than 29,000 McDonald's restaurants in 121 countries. When McDonald's first spread across America, many of its restaurants were built on highways or at other locations from which they could draw customers in automobiles from miles around. In previous decades-from the 1920s into the 1950s-White Castle was the dominant hamburger chain in the United States. People walked to White Castle hamburger restaurants, which meant that these restaurants had to be located in places with high population densities, so as to generate a large volume of pedestrian traffic coming in, enabling White Castle to sell to many people who came from a limited distance. Accordingly, White Castles were , often located near factories or in crowded working class neighborhoods in central cities. And they stayed open around the clock. Financing was also very different in that earlier era. Unlike later fast-food chains, White Castle did not have franchises. The parent company owned each restaurant and built new ones only when it had the money on hand to pay cash to do so. This enabled White Castle to ride out the Great Depression of the 1930s, when many other businesses, homes, and farms were lost because mortgages could not be paid at a time when money was so scarce. Indeed, White Castle expanded during the Depression. It was almost ideally adapted to the world in which it existed. But it lost its unchallenged leadership of the industry and began a decline into obscurity when the economy and society changed around its restaurants in the middle of the twentieth century. As middle-class and even working class people became more prosperous, acquired automobiles, and moved out of the central cities into the suburbs, reducing population densities in the cities, White Castle could no longer count on the heavy urban pedestrian traffic on