spending on security in Brazil is estimated to substantially exceed public spending on police, and private security guards outnumber policemen by three to one. Whatever the merits or demerits of particular laws, someone must administer those laws-and how efficiently or how honestly that is done can make a huge economic difference. The phrase "the law's delay" goes back at least as far as Shakespeare's time. Such delay imposes costs on those whose investments are idled, whose shipments are held up, and whose ability to plan their economic activities is crippled by red tape and slow-moving bureaucrats. Moreover, bureaucrats' ability to create delay often means an opportunity for them to collect bribes to speed things up-all of which adds up to higher costs of doing business. That in turn means higher prices to consumers, and correspondingly lower standards of living for the country as a whole. A study by the World Bank concluded that "across countries there is evidence that higher levels of corruption are associated with lower growth and lower levels of per capita income." In India, for example, as an Indian business executive put it, the entrepreneur there "has to bribe from twenty to forty functionaries if he is serious about doing business." During czarist Russia's industrialization in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, one of the country's biggest handicaps was the widespread corruption in the general population, in addition to the corruption that was rampant within the Russian government. Foreign firms which hired Russian workers and even Russian executives made it a point not to hire Russian accountants. This corruption continued under the Communists and has become an international scandal in the post-Communist era. One study pointed out that the stock of a Russian oil company sold for about one percent of what the stock of a similar oil company would sell for in the United States because "the market assumes that Russian oil companies will be systematically looted by insiders." Nor is this corruption confined to the industrial or commercial sector. According to a report from The Chronicle of Higher Education's Moscow correspondent in 2002: It costs between $10,000 and $15,000 in bribes merely to gain acceptance into well-regarded institutions of higher learning in Moscow, the daily newspaper Izvestia has reported. . . At Astrakhan State Technical University, about 700 miles south of Moscow, three professors were arrested after allegedly inducing students to pay cash to ensure good grades on exams. . . . Over all, Russian students and their parents annually spend at least $2 billion-and possibly up to $5 billion-in such "unofficial" educational outlays, the deputy prime minister, Valentina Matviyenko, said last year in an interview. In a country's economy, bribes are not simply a cost to companies doing business in that particular country. They are a deterrent to other companies that are deciding where to invest and where to avoid-and the loss of those investments can be a much bigger cost to the economy than the bribes themselves. As The Economist magazine put