and poor alike who move into the city after rent control has created a housing shortage typically cannot find a rent-controlled apartment, and so have available only housing that costs more than it would in a free market, because of the housing shortage. Not surprisingly, homelessness tends to be greater in cities with rent control-New York and San Francisco again being classic examples. Scarcity Versus Shortage In order to demonstrate in a different way the crucial distinction between an increased scarcity-where fewer goods are available relative to the population-and a "shortage" as a price phenomenon, we can consider a situation where the actual amount of housing suddenly declined in a given area without any price control. This happened in the wake of the great San Francisco earthquake and fire of 1906. More than half the city's housing supply was destroyed during that catastrophe in just three days and not a single major hotel remained standing. Yet there was no housing shortage. When the San Francisco Chronicle resumed publication a month after the earthquake, its first issue contained 64 advertisements of apartments or homes for rent, compared to only 5 ads from people seeking apartments to live in. Of the 200,000 people suddenly made homeless by the earthquake, temporary shelters housed 30,000 and an estimated 75,000 left the city. Still, that left nearly 100,000 people to be absorbed into the local housing market. Yet the newspapers of that time mention no housing shortage. Rising prices not only allocated the existing housing, they provided incentives for rebuilding. In short, just as there can be a shortage without any greater physical scarcity, so there can be a greater physical scarcity without any shortage. People made homeless by the San Francisco earthquake found housing more readily than people made homeless by New York's rent control laws that took thousands of buildings off the market. Similar economic principles apply in other markets. During the American gasoline "crisis" of 1972 and 1973, when oil prices were kept artificially low by the federal government, there were long lines of automobiles waiting at filling stations in cities across the United States, but there was in fact 95 percent as much gasoline sold in 1972 as there was in the previous year, when there were no gasoline lines at the filling stations, no shortage and no crisis atmosphere. Similarly, during the gasoline crisis of 1979, the amount of gasoline sold was only 3.5 percent less than in the record-breaking year of gasoline sales in 1978. In fact, the amount of gasoline sold in 1979 was greater than the gasoline consumption in any other previous year in the history of the country except 1978. In short, there was a minor increase in scarcity but a major shortage, with long lines of motorists waiting at filling stations, sometimes for hours, before reaching the pump. The usual function of prices in directing goods and resources to where they are most in demand no longer operates under price controls, so that gasoline remained