a common but misleading practice to try to determine whether inequality is increasing or decreasing by comparing the incomes of those in the top 20 percent with the incomes of those in the bottom 20 percent. If our concern is the well-being of flesh-and-blood human beings, rather than with statistical categories, then we need to consider not only those who are in given income brackets in a given year but also those who are constantly moving in and out of those brackets from year to year. When an absolute majority of those in the bottom 20 percent in income in 1975 were also in the top 20 percent at some point by 1991, you cannot determine the degree of income inequality between people by looking at inequality between income brackets at a given time. If our concern is with the economic well-being of flesh-and-blood people, as distinguished from statistical comparisons between brackets, then we need to look at real income per capita, because people do not live on percentage shares. They live on real income. Among those individuals who were in the bottom 20 percent in 1975,98 percent had higher real incomes by 1991 and two-thirds had higher real incomes in 1991 than the average American had back in 1975. Moreover, even when narrowly focusing on income brackets, that fact that the share of the bottom 20 percent of households declined from 4 percent of all income in 1985 to 3.6 percent in 2001 did not prevent the real income of the households in these brackets from rising by thousands of dollars in absolute terms-quite aside from the movement of actual people out of the bottom 20 percent between the two years. While, in some senses, those who are called "the poor" are not as badly off as instantaneous statistics might suggest, in other respects they are worse off Those who are poor on a long-term basis and live in poverty-stricken neighborhoods must often pay higher prices for inferior goods and services, because of the higher costs of delivering those goods and services to such neighborhoods. As already noted in Chapters 4 and 6, a suburban supermarket has lower costs of delivering groceries to its customers than does a typical neighborhood store in the inner city, and that translates into higher prices charged to low-income customers than to high-income customers. Being poor is expensive. Fortunately, most people in most modern Western countries do not remain poor very long. Differences in Skills Among the many reasons for differences in productivity and pay is that some people have more skills than others. No one is surprised that engineers earn more than messengers or that experienced shipping clerks tend to earn higher pay than inexperienced shipping clerks-and experienced pilots tend to earn more than either. Although workers may be thought of as people who supply labor, what most people supply is not just their ability to engage in physical exertions, but their ability to apply mental proficiency to their tasks. The time when