did all this, not because he did not have enough money to live on, but because he wanted more-and he wanted his company to be number one. If that is our definition of "greed," then he Was greedy. More important, in this case as in many others, it was precisely such greed that led to lower prices. That was how Sears overtook Montgomery Ward and replaced it as the leading retailer in the country at the beginning of the twentieth century. In later years, that is how Wal- Mart overtook Sears. Those who condemn greed may espouse "non-economic values." But lofty talk about "non-economic values" too often amounts to very selfish attempts to have one's own values subsidized by others, obviously at the expense of those other people's values. A typical example of this appeared in a letter to Editor & Publisher magazine, written by a newspaper columnist who criticized "the annual profit requirements faced by newspapers" due to "the demands of faceless Wall Street financial analysts who seem, from where I sit, insensitive to the vagaries of newspaper journalism." Despite the rhetorical device of describing some parties to a transaction in less than human terms ("faceless Wall Street analysts"), they are all people and they all have their own interests, which must be mutually reconciled in one way or another, if those who supply the money that enables newspapers to operate are to be willing to continue to do so. Although people who work on Wall Street may control millions of dollars each, this is not all their own personal money by any means. Much of it comes from the savings, or the money paid into pension funds, by millions of other people, many of whom have very modest incomes. If "the vagaries of newspaper journalism" make it difficult to earn as high a return on investments in newspapers or newspaper chains as might be earned elsewhere in the economy, why should workers whose pension funds will be needed to provide for their old age subsidize newspaper chains by accepting a lower rate of return on money invested in such corporations? Since many editors and columnists earn much more than some of the people whose payments into pension funds supply newspapers with the money to operate, it would seem especially strange to expect people with lower incomes to be subsidizing people with higher incomes-teachers and mechanics, for example, subsidizing editors and reporters. Why should financial analysts, as the intermediaries handling pension funds and other investments from vast numbers of people, betray those people who have entrusted their savings to them by accepting less of a return from newspapers than what is available from other sectors of the economy? If good journalism-however defined-results in lower rates of return on the money invested in newspaper chains, whatever special costs of newspaper publishing are responsible for this can be borne by any of a number of people who benefit from newspapers. Readers can pay higher prices, columnists, editors and reporters can accept