quicker to respond. During the 1920s, for example, the A & P grocery chain in the United States was making a phenomenal rate of profit on its investment-never less than 20 percent per year, about double the national average-and it continued to prosper on through the decades of the 1930s and 1940s. But all this began to change drastically in the 1950s, when A & P lost more than $50 million in one 52-week period. A few years later, it lost $175 million over the same span of time. Its decline had begun. A & P's fate, both when it prospered and when it lost out to rival grocery chains, illustrates the dynamic nature of a price-coordinated economy and the role of profits and losses. When A & P was prospering up through the 1940s, it did so by charging lower prices than competing grocery stores. It could do this because its efficiency kept its costs lower than those of competing grocery stores and chains, and the resulting lower prices attracted vast numbers of customers. When A & P began to lose customers to other grocery chains, this was because these other chains could now sell for lower prices than A & P. Changing conditions in the surrounding society brought this about-together with differences in the speed with which different companies spotted these changes and realized their implications. What were these changes? In the years following the end of World War II, suburbanization and the American public's rising prosperity gave huge supermarkets in shopping malls with vast parking lots decisive advantages over neighborhood stores located along the streets in the central cities. As the ownership of automobiles, refrigerators and freezers became far more widespread, this completely changed the economics of the grocery industry. The automobile, which made suburbanization possible, also made possible greater economies of scale for both customers and supermarkets. Shoppers could now buy far more groceries at one time than they could have carried home in their arms from an urban neighborhood store before the war. That was the crucial role of the automobile. Moreover, refrigerators and freezers now made it possible to stock up on perishable items like meat and dairy products. This led to fewer trips to the grocery store, with larger purchases each time. What this meant to the supermarket itself was a larger volume of sales at a given location, which could now draw customers with automobiles from miles around, whereas a neighborhood store in the central city was unlikely to draw customers on foot from ten blocks away. High volume meant savings in delivery costs from the wholesale warehouses to the supermarket, as compared to delivering the same total amount of groceries in smaller individual lots to many neighborhood stores, whose total sales would add up to what one supermarket sold. This also meant savings in the cost of selling within the supermarket itself, because it did not take as long to check out one customer buying $50 worth of groceries at a