In a later era, a clerk in a J.C. Penney store named Sam Walton would learn retailing from the ground up and later put his knowledge and insights to work in his own store, which would eventually expand to become the Wal-Mart chain, with sales larger than those of Sears and J. C. Penney combined. One of the great handicaps of government-run economies, whether under medieval mercantilism or modern communism, is that insights which arise among the masses have no such powerful leverage as to force those in authority to change the way they do things. Under any form of economic or political system, those at the top tend to become complacent, if not arrogant. Convincing them of anything is not easy, especially when it is some new way of doing things that is very different from what they are used to. The big advantage of a free market is that you don't have to convince anybody of anything. You simply compete with them in the marketplace and let that be the test of what works best. Imagine a system in which J. C. Penney had to verbally convince the heads of Sears and Montgomery Ward to expand beyond mail-order retailing and build a nationwide chain of stores. Their response might well have been: "Who is this guy Penney-a part-owner of some little store in a hick town nobody ever heard of-to tell us how to run the largest retail companies in the world?" In a market economy, Penney did not have to convince anybody of anything. All he had to do was deliver the merchandise to the consumers at a lower price. His success and the millions of dollars in losses suffered by Sears and Montgomery Ward left these giants no choice but to imitate this upstart, in order to become profitable again and regain their leadership of the retail merchandise industry. J. C. Penney grew up in worse poverty than most people who are on welfare today. Yet his ideas and insights prevailed against some of the richest men of his time, who finally realized that they would be ruined financially if they did not follow his lead by setting up their own department stores. They would not have remained rich for long if Penney and others had kept taking away their customers, leaving their companies with millions of dollars in losses each year. Mere words could not have persuaded Sears or Montgomery Ward to become department store chains. The firing of Robert Wood at Montgomery Ward was all too typical of what can happen to those who tell people things ,they do not want to hear. Years later, during the post-World War II era, a similar fate awaited those executives at Montgomery Ward who tried to tell its chief executive officer, Sewell Avery, that the company needed to establish stores in suburban shopping malls. Avery got rid of these executives but then the market eventually got rid of him, amid great dissatisfaction among stockholders, as his ideas