(The Central Lands) of Christians andjews in the Ottoman Empire: The Functioning of a Plural Society, edited by Benjamin Braude and Bernard Lewis. The economic role of the Germans in Brazil is discussed in Chapter 2 of Migrations and Cultures by Thomas Sowell and the role of the Chinese in Malaysia and the Indians in Fiji are discussed in Chapters 5 and 7 of the same book. The role of the British in Argentina is discussed throughout British-Owned Railways in Argentina: Their Effect on Economic Nationalism, 1854-1948 by Winthrop R. Wright. The role of the Belgians in Russia is discussed on page 35 of Pioneers for Profit: Foreign Entrepreneurship and Russian Industrialization 1885-1913 by John P. Mckay. Cambodian ownership of most doughnut shops in California is discussed in a front page story in the February 22, 1995 issue of the Wall Street Journal under the title "How Cambodians Came to Control California Doughnuts," by Jonathan Kaufman. Differences in the percentage of immigrants on welfare are from page 216 of The Debate in the United States over Immigration, edited by Peter Duignan and Lewis H. Gann. Data on American investments in the Netherlands and in Africa in 2001 are from page 20 of the February 2003 issue of Survey of Current Business and data on foreign earnings from assets owned in the United States in 2001 are from page 10 of the same issue. Page 68 of Myron Weiner's 1995 book, The Migration Crisis is the source of the statement that remittances from citizens living abroad exceed all the foreign aid from all the government agencies in the world. Professor P. T. Bauer's comment on foreign aid is from page 102 of his 1981 book Equality, the Third World and Economic Delusion, published by Harvard University Press. Peddlers who became founders of major companies like Levi Strauss, Macy's, etc. are discussed in Chapter 6 of my Migrations and Cultures, where further specific citations of sources can be found in the end notes. The percentage of the world's land inhabited by Western Europeans and the additional percentage controlled by them in their overseas colonies is from page 87 of The Dynamics of Global Dominance by David B. Abernethy, published in 2000 by Yale University Press. The fact that foreigners took nearly $270 billion out of the American economy in 2001 is based on data on page 10 of the February 2003 issue of the Survey of Current Business. The estimate that only one person in ten works in a legally recognized enterprise in a typical African nation is from an article titled "Poverty and Property Rights," on pages 20 to 22 of the March 31,2001 issue of The Economist. The estimate of the number of illegally built homes in Egypt is from page 20 of The Mystery of Capital by Hernando de Soto and the value of the illegally produced wealth in Peru is from pages 33 and 34. Robert Mundell's comment on the era of the gold standard is from his