during winter nights in New York, despite far more boarded-up housing units in the city than it would take to shelter them all. A desperate government in eighteenth-century France decreed the death penalty for anyone who refused to accept the money that the revolutionary leaders had issued, in utter ignorance or disregard of economics. Some of the economic policies which have led to counterproductive or even catastrophic consequences in various countries and in various periods of history might suggest that there was unbelievable stupidity on the part of those making these decisions-which, in democratic countries, might also imply unbelievable stupidity on the part of those who voted for them. But this is not so. While the economic analysis required to understand these issues may not be particularly difficult to grasp, one must first stop and think about them,in an economic framework. When people do not stop and think through certain issues, it does not matter whether those people are geniuses or morons, because the quality of the thinking that they would have done is a moot point. In addition to the role of incentives and constraints, one of our other central themes has been the role of knowledge. In free market economies, we have seen giant multi-billion-dollar corporations fall from their pinnacles, some all the way to bankruptcy and extinction, because their knowledge of changing circumstances, and the implications of those changes, lagged behind that of upstart rivals. What is important is not that A & P succumbed to Safeway or White Castle to McDonald's, but that knowledge and insights proved decisive in market competition. The public benefited from that, by getting what it wanted at lower prices, because some business decisions were based on a clearer understanding of the economic realities of the times and Circumstances. In centrally planned economies, we have seen the planners overwhelmed by the task of trying to set literally millions of prices and keep changing those prices in response to innumerable and often unforeseeable changes in circumstances. It was not remarkable that they failed so often. What was remarkable was that anyone had expected them to succeed, given the vast amount of knowledge that would have had to be marshaled and mastered in one place by one set of people to make such an arrangement work. Lenin was only one of many theorists over the centuries who imagined that it would be easy to run economic activities-and the first to encounter directly the economic and social catastrophes to which that belief led, as he himself admitted. Given the decisive advantages of knowledge and insight in a market economy, even when this knowledge and insight are in the minds of people born and raised in poverty, like J. C. Penney or F. W. Woolworth, we can see why market economies have outperformed other economies that depend on ideas originating within a narrow elite of birth or ideology. While market economies are often thought of as money economies, they are still more so knowledge economies, for