neighbor's today, but if the prospective toll of wear and tear on your property over time is reduced by installing heavier pipes, stronger woods, or other more durable building materials, then your property's market value will immediately be worth more than that of your neighbor, even if there is no visible difference in the way they are functioning today. Conversely, if the city announces that it is going to begin building a sewage treatment plant next year, on a piece of land next to your home, the value of your home will decline immediately, before the adjoining land has been touched. The present value of an asset reflects its future benefits or detriments, so that anything which is expected to enhance or reduce those benefits or detriments will immediately affect the price at which the asset can be sold today. Present value links the future to the present. It makes sense for a ninety year-old man to begin planting fruit trees that will take 20 years before they reach their maturity because his land will immediately be worth more as a result of those trees. He can sell the land a month later and go live in the Bahamas if he wishes, because he will be receiving additional value from the fruit that is expected to grow on those trees, years after he is no longer alive. Part of the value of his wealth today consists of the value of food that has not yet been grown-and which will be eaten by children who have not yet been born. I. . One of the big differences between economics and politics is that politicians are not forced to pay attention to future consequences that lie beyond . the next election. An elected official whose policies keep the public happy up through election day stands a good chance of being voted another term in ,office, even if those policies will have ruinous consequences in later years. There is no "present value" to make political decision-makers today take future consequences into account, when those consequences will come after election day. Although the general public may not have sufficient knowledge or training to realize the long-run implications of to day's policies, financial specialists who deal in government bonds do. Thus the Standard & Poor's bond-rating service downgraded California's state bonds in the midst of that state's electricity crisis in 2001, even though there had been no defaults on those bonds, nor any lesser payments made to those who had bought California bonds, and there were billions of dollars of surplus in the state's treasury. What Standard & Poor understood was that the heavy financial responsibilities taken on by the California government to meet the electricity crisis meant that heavy taxes or heavy debt were waiting over the horizon. That increased the risk of future defaults or delay in payments to bondholders-thereby reducing the present value of those bonds. Any series of future payments can be reduced to a present value that can be paid