emerging unpredictably and more efficient methods of organization being devised, to keep workers employed where they are already working is to force society to forgo the economic benefits of such new developments. Even within a given occupation, technology affects people of different abilities differently. Local entertainers of modest abilities could earn a modest living more easily before motion pictures, television, and compact disks enabled the most talented entertainers in the world to become available to audiences around the world. People thousands of miles away could hear Pavarotti sing or watch Andre Agassi play tennis or Tiger Woods play golf Just as the televising of major league baseball made minor league baseball less attractive, so the availability of superstars in many fields led to what one economist called "a 'winner-take-all' effect, where only the best do well, and those lucky few command enormous incomes." Focusing on such growing internal inequalities in a given occupation overlooks the vastly larger numbers of other people who benefit from hearing Pavarotti or seeing a wider array of highly talented people in a variety of fields. Moreover, it is by no means clear that most people are as preoccupied with income differences as intellectuals in academia and the media seem to be. One classic study, Equality by R. H. Tawney, lamented that the public seemed less resentful of the rich than fascinated by their goings-on. Occupational Pay Differentials Pay differentials are typically reflections of productivity differences and are part of the process of allocating scarce labor resources which have alternative uses. Again, a fairly obvious economic fact can become very confused when intertwined with very different moral questions about whether one group of people merit so much more than others. Productivity and merit are wholly different things. Someone born and raised in highly favorable circumstances may find it easier to become a brain surgeon than someone born and raised I in highly unfavorable circumstances may find it to become a carpenter. But that is very different from saying that brain surgeons are paid "too much" or carpenters "too little." In policy terms, making it easier for people born in less fortunate circumstances to acquire the knowledge and skills to become brain surgeons is very , different from simply decreeing that pay differentials between brain surgeons and carpenters be reduced or eliminated. The latter policy affects the allocation of resources, affecting not only how hard existing brain surgeons will work or how early they will retire, but also how many replacements they will ' have, as young people decide whether or not it is worth all the years and effort it takes to become a brain surgeon. Those who have the biggest stake in all this are people suffering from medical conditions that require brain surgery. Despite a tendency in some quarters to see economic choices as a zero-sum activity involving a trade-off between the interests of two competing groups, very often the third parties who are ignored are affected most of all. Moreover, seeing economic issues