Union likewise face huge financial liabilities as the size of their retired population continues to grow, not only absolutely but also relative to the size of the working populations whose taxes are paying their pensions. In Brazil, government pensions are already paying out more money than they are taking in, with the deficits being especially large in the pensions for unionized government workers. In other words, the looming financial crisis which American and European governments are dreading and trying to forestall has already struck in Brazil, whose government pensions have been described as "the most generous in the world." According to The Economist: Civil servants do not merely retire on full salary; they get, in effect, a pay rise because they stop paying contributions into the system. Most women retire at around 50 and men soon afterwards. A Soldier's widow inherits his pension, and bequeaths it to her daughters. . Given that Brazil's civil servants are an organized and unionized special interest group, such generosity is understandable politically. The question is Whether the voting public in Brazil and elsewhere will understand the economic consequences well enough to be able to avoid the financial crises to which such unfunded generosity can lead-in the name of "social insurance." Such awareness is beginning to dawn on people in some countries. In New Zealand, for example, a poll found that 70 percent of New Zealanders under the age of 40 believe that the pensions they have been promised will not be there for them when they retire. In one way or another, the day of reckoning seems to be approaching in many countries for programs described as "social insurance" but which were in fact never insurance at all. Chapter 14 An Overview The purpose of capital markets is to direct scarce capital to its highest uses. -ROBERT L. BARTLEY, WALL STREET JOURNAL Time has sometimes been called the fourth dimension. It certainly adds a new dimension to economics, as it does to other aspects of life. Time produces both calculable risks and incalculable uncertainties. It is a calculable risk that playing Russian roulette will lead to death about one time out of six but there is simply uncertainty as to what the stock market will do next. Various kinds of financial institutions have evolved to deal with various kinds of risk. In addition, financial markets transfer resources from one time period to another, as well as from one person to another and from one sector of the economy to another. How much of a natural resource this generation will use, and how much it will leave for future generations, depends on the "present value" of that resource, which in turn depends on the interest rate, as well as estimates of the resource's future price, based on its future scarcity. If we were in fact likely to run out of some resource any time soon, its present value would skyrocket, With high prices forcing cutbacks in its use today-which is to say, forcing us to