other Western industrial nations or Japan, even though most of these other nations produced a far smaller percentage of their own petroleum than the United States did. These other countries did not have price controls on gasoline, so they did not have the shortages that go with price controls. When government control of gasoline prices was ended in 1981-amid widespread warnings that this would lead to drastically higher prices-what followed was virtually a lesson in elementary economics. Higher prices led to a greater quantity of gasoline being supplied and a smaller amount demanded. Oil exploration shot up and existing wells whose costs could n?t have been covered at the controlled prices began pumping oil again. Within months, gasoline prices fell below what they had been under complex government controls. This fall continued over the years until gasoline prices reached an all-time low in real terms. Additional taxes were then piled onto the prices at the pump, but the gas itself was cheaper than ever-and there were no waiting lines. Often the knowledge that is economically crucial is highly specific to a particular location or a particular group of people-and is therefore unlikely Po be known widely. One of the reasons for the success of the A & P grocery :chain in the first half of the twentieth century and of the McDonald's chain in the second half was the great amount of time and attention they devoted to acquiring detailed knowledge of specific locations being considered for their respective outlets, so as to have their outlets be accessible to the maximum number of customers. Real estate agents often say that the three most important factors in the value of real estate are "location, location, and location." The same is also true of many businesses serving the public. There is a reason why filling stations are usually located on corners and McDonald's are usually located in the middle of the block. Highly specific knowledge of particular groups of people can prove to be as economically decisive as knowledge of particular places. At the beginning of the twentieth century, an Italian immigrant in San Francisco, well aware that other Italian immigrants regularly saved money, even out of small incomes, and were reliable in repaying loans, established a bank that he called the Bank of Italy, so as to attract depositors and borrowers whom the other banks overlooked. His bank began in a little office with three wooden desks, some chairs, an adding machine, a safe, and one teller's window. But, capitalizing on its owner's understanding of the particular community it served, and his general business astuteness, the bank became so successful that it grew and eventually spread its branches across the state. Once firmly established, it began attracting so many depositors beyond the Italian American community that it became at one time the largest bank in the world under its new name, the Bank of America. Chapter 6 The Role of Profits And Losses Competition is the keen cutting edge of business,