of physical goods that move. The American economy produces more services than goods, so it is not surprising that the United States imports more goods than it exports-and exports more services than it imports. American know-how and American technology are used by other countries around the world and these countries of course pay the U.S. for these services. For example, most of the personal computers in the world run on operating systems created by the Microsoft Corporation. But foreign payments to Microsoft and other American companies for their services are not counted in the international balance of trade, since trade includes only goods. This is just an accounting convention. Yet the American "balance of trade" is reported in the media as if this partial picture were the whole picture and the emotionally explosive word "deficit" sets off alarms. Yet there is often a substantial surplus earned by the United States from its services, which are omitted from the trade balance. In the year 2000, for example, the United States earned $38 billion from royalty and license fees alone, and more than $278 billion from all the services it supplied to other countries. That is more than double the Gross Domestic Product of Norway. When you count all the money and resources moving in and out of a country for all sorts of reasons, then you are talking about the international "balance of payments"-regardless of whether the payments were made for goods or services. While this is not as misleading as the balance of trade, it is still far from being the whole story, and it has no necessary connection with the health of the economy. Ironically, one of the rare balance of payments surpluses for the United States in the late twentieth century was followed by the 1992 recession. Nigeria has had years of international trade surpluses and is one of the poorest countries in the world. This is not to say that countries with trade surpluses or payments surpluses are at an economic disadvantage. It is just that these numbers, by themselves, do not necessarily indicate either the prosperity or the poverty of any economy. According to the accounting rules, when people in other countries invest in the United States, that makes the U.S. a "debtor" to those people, because Americans owe them the money that they sent to U.S., since it was not sent as a gift. When people in many countries around the world feel more secure in putting their money in American banks or investing in American corporations, rather than relying on their own banks and corporations, then vast sums of money from overseas find their way to the United States. Foreigners invested $12 billion in American businesses in 1980 and this rose over the years until they were investing more than $200 billion annually by 1998. Looked at in terms of things, there is nothing wrong with this. It created more jobs for American workers and created more goods for American consumers, as well as