by the tax exemptions of non-profit organizations. That gives the managers of non-profit organization far more room to do what they want, rather than what either the public wants or what their deceased donors wanted when these organizations were set up. The fact that a non-profit organization can provide its services free or below cost virtually assures a market for its output, without being forced to produce that output at the lowest cost. Indeed, the very nature of the output itself can be changed to meet the preferences of the non-profit officials, among other indulgences that are possible with money donated by people who are unlikely to monitor performance as closely as stockholders or financiers who specialize in corporate takeovers. Despite a tendency in the media to treat non-profit organizations as disinterested, those non-profits which depend on continuing donations from the public have incentives to be alarmists, in order to scare more money out of their contributors. "TRICKLE DOWN" THEORY There have been many economic theories over the centuries, accompanied by controversies among different schools of economists. But one of the most politically prominent economic theories today is one that has never existed among economists-the "trickle down" theory.2 People who are politically committed to policies of redistributing income and who tend to emphasize the conflicts between business and labor, rather than their mutual interdependence, often accuse those opposed to them of believing that benefits must be given to the wealthy in general or to business in particular, in order that these benefits will eventually "trickle down" to the masses of ordinary people. But no recognized economist of any school of thought has ever had any such theory or made any such proposal. It is a straw man. It cannot be found in even the most voluminous and learned histories of economic theories. Proposals to reduce taxes on capital gains, for example, are often opposed politically by saying that those who make such proposals believe in a "trickle down" theory of economics. In reality, economic processes work in the directly opposite way from that depicted by those who imagine that profits first benefit business owners and that benefits only belatedly trickle down to workers. 'A writer in India refers to those promoting a change from government planning to a freer market as people who have "blind faith in the 'trickle-down' theory of distributing the benefits of economic growth among different socio-economic groups in the country." But free market economics is not about "distributing" anything to anybody. It is about letting people earn whatever they can from voluntary transactions with other people. When an investment is made, whether to build a railroad or to open a new restaurant, the first money is spent hiring people to do the work. Without that, nothing happens. Even when one person decides to operate a store or hamburger stand without employees, that person must first pay somebody to deliver the goods that are going to be sold. Money goes out first to pay expenses and then