problem is not with understanding the basic economics involved. The problem is with confusion spread by politicians, the media and others trying to prove some point with statistics. For example, some have claimed that Japan has had a higher per capita income than the . United States, using statistics based on official exchange rates of the dollar and the yen. But, in fact, the United States has significantly higher per capita income than Japan when measured by the purchasing power of the two countries' national outputs. The average American's annual income could buy everything the average Japanese annual income buys and still have thousands of dollars left over. Therefore the average American has a higher standard of living than the average Japanese. Yet statistics based on official exchange rates may show the average Japanese earning thousands of dollars more than the average American in some years, leaving the false impression that the Japanese are more prosperous than Americans. Another complication in comparisons of output between nations is that more of one nation's output may have been sold through the marketplace, while more of the other nation's output may have been produced by government and either given away or sold at less than its cost of production. When too many automobiles have been produced in a market economy to be sold profitably, the excess cars have to be sold for whatever they will bring, even if that is less than they cost to produce. When the value of national output is added up, these cars are counted according to what they sold for. But, in an economy where the government provides many free or subsidized goods, these goods are valued at what it cost the government to produce them. These ways of counting exaggerate the value of government provided goods and services, many of which are provided by government precisely because they would never cover their costs of production if sold in a free market economy. Both capitalism and socialism can produce more of particular things than people want, but a capitalist economy reduces the value of the surplus goods and services, while a socialist economy counts them according to what they cost, whether or not those costs could be recovered from the consuming public. Given this tendency to over value the output of socialist economies relative to capitalist economies when adding up their respective Gross Domestic Products, it is all the most striking that capitalist economies still show higher per capita output. Despite all the problems with comparisons of national output between very different countries or between time periods far removed from one another, Gross Domestic Product statistics provide a reasonable basis for comparing similar countries at the same time-especially when population size differences are taken into account by comparing Gross Domestic Product per capita. Thus when the data show that the Gross Domestic Product per capita in Norway in 2002 was double what it was in Portugal the same year, we can reasonably conclude that the Norwegians had a