more electricity was being used for heating in the winter and for cooling in the summer. In short, there was a reduction in the quantity of electricity available at a given cost and an increase in the quantity of electricity demanded at existing prices. A price rise under these conditions is hardly surprising. Unfortunately, most members of the general public were unaware of these factors behind the suddenly rising prices, and so were resentful and became receptive to those who blamed the price increases on power companies' charging what the traffic would bear. If this were just a philosophical issue, it would have no economic implications. But when the political consequences included price "caps" placed on electricity sold to western states, that in turn led to economic consequences. When there was more electricity demanded than supplied at government controlled prices in the western states, power generators had a choice of where to sell their output, just as a landlord has a choice of which of the surplus applicants to rent his apartments to under rent control. Not surprisingly, they sold their electricity to states not covered by the price controls. In other words, California and other western states received less electricity than they would have received if the electricity-generating companies had been allowed to charge what the traffic would bear. Had the price controls been nationwide, then California would no doubt have received a larger share of the electricity being generated in other states. However, it is doubtful whether the total amount of electricity generated nationwide would have remained unchanged. More likely, less electricity would have been produced nationwide when its price was held down artificially nationwide, and more shortages and blackouts would have occurred across the country, instead of only in California and Nevada. Electricity is only an example. The same principle applies much more widely. To say that the traffic will bear a higher price is to say that the quantity demanded-of electricity, widgets, cameras, or whatever-exceeds the quantity supplied at the current price. Price controls under these conditions virtually guarantee that the shortage will not be corrected. Focusing on the seller's "greed" neither explains what caused the shortage nor offers any way of ending it. SAVING LIVES Perhaps the strongest arguments for "non-economic values" are those involving human lives. Many highly costly laws, policies, or devices designed to safeguard the public from lethal hazards are defended on grounds that "if it saves just one human life" it is worth whatever it costs. Powerful as the moral and emotional appeal of such pronouncements may be, they cannot withstand scrutiny in a world where scarce resources have alternative uses. One of those alternative uses is saving other human lives in other ways. Few things have saved as many lives as the simple growth of wealth. An earthquake powerful enough to kill a dozen people in California will kill hundreds of people in some less affluent country and thousands in a Third World nation. Greater wealth enables California buildings, bridges,