B. Prices facilitate this kind of substitution, as they reflect incrementally changing demands, leading to incremental changes in the amount supplied. Trade-offs and substitution can take place either intentionally or systemically. An intentional trade-off has been made by LTV, a steel manufacturer in Cleveland, whose equipment has been set up to shift automatically from oil to natural gas when the price of oil rises above a given level. Automobiles have also been adjusted intentionally by becoming more fuel-efficient. Thus, the average American car drove 2,000 miles more in 1998 than in 1973, but used about 200 gallons less gasoline than a quarter if a century earlier. This was because of high-tech equipment added to engines, obviously at a cost, but with the cost of this technology substituting incrementally for the cost of gasoline. A systemic trade-off occurs when the economy as a whole uses less oil because the composition of its output changes. As a higher proportion of the output of the American economy has over the years come to consist of services, rather than material goods, less fuel is needed in their production. It takes less fuel to create more advanced software than to manufacture steel or automobiles. Over all, the amount of fuel used per dollar of national output in the American economy has declined steadily since the early 1970s, when oil prices were raised dramatically by the international petroleum cartel. As important as it is to understand the role of substitutions, it is also important to keep in mind that the efficient allocation of resources requires that these substitutions be incremental, not total. For example, one may believe that health is more important than amusements but, however reasonable that may sound as a general principle, no one really believes that having a twenty year's supply of Band-Aids in the closet is more important than having to give up all music in order to pay for it. A price-coordinated economy facilitates incremental substitution, but political decision-making tends toward categorical priorities-that is, declaring one thing absolutely more important than another and creating laws and policies accordingly. When a political figure says that we need to "set national priorities" about one thing or another, what that amounts to is making A categorically more important than B. That is the opposite of incremental substitution, in which the value of each depends on how much of each we already have at the moment, and therefore on the changing amount of A that we are willing to give up in order to get more B. Incremental substitution means that the relative values of each varies with how much of each we already have available. This variation can be so great as to convert something that is beneficial into something that is detrimental, and vice versa. For example, human beings cannot live without salt, fat, and cholesterol, but most Americans get so much of all three that their lifespan is reduced. Conversely, despite the many problems caused by alcohol, from fatal automobile accidents to