not change the principle. Empirical evidence strongly indicates that racial discrimination tends to be greater when the costs are lower and lower when the costs are greater. Even in South Africa during the era of apartheid, where racial discrimination was required by law, white employers in competitive industries hired. more blacks and in higher occupations than they were permitted to do by the government, and were often fined when caught doing so. This was because it was in the employers' economic self-interest to hire blacks. Similarly, whites who wanted homes built in Johannesburg typically hired illegal black construction crews, often with a token white nominally in charge to meet the requirements of the apartheid laws, rather than pay the higher price of hiring a white construction crew as the government wanted them to do. Landlords likewise often rented to blacks in areas where only whites were legally allowed to live. The cost of discrimination to the discriminators is crucial for understanding such behavior. Employers who are spending other people's money-government agencies or non-profit organizations, for example-are much less affected by the cost of discrimination. In countries around the world, discrimination by government has been greater than discrimination by businesses operating in private, competitive markets. Understanding the basic economics of discrimination makes it easier to understand why blacks were starring on Broadway in the 1920s, at a time when they were not permitted to enlist in the U. S. Navy and were kept out of many civilian government jobs as well. Broadway producers were not about to lose big money that they could make by hiring black entertainers who could attract big audiences, but the costs of government discrimination were paid by the taxpayers, whether they realized it or not. Just as minimum wage laws reduce the cost of discrimination to the employer, maximum wage laws increase the employer's cost of discrimination. One of the few examples of maximum wage laws in recent centuries were the wage and price controls imposed in the United States during World War II. Because wages were not allowed to rise to the level that they would reach under supply and demand, there was a shortage of workers, just as there is shortage of housing under rent control. Many employers who had not hired blacks or women, or who had not hired them for desirable jobs, before the war now began to do so. The "Rosy the Riveter" image that came out of World War II was in part a result of wage and price controls. CAPITAL, LABOR, AND EFFICIENCY While everything requires some labor for its production, practically nothing can be produced by labor alone. Farmers need land, taxi drivers need cars, artists need something to draw on and something to draw with. Even a stand-up comedian needs an inventory of jokes, which is his capital, as much as hydroelectric dams are the capital of companies that produce electricity. Capital complements labor in the production process, but it also competes with labor for employment. In