the government can also fail-or can even make things worse. Ironically, people are often more clear in their thinking about sports than about policies that have a more serious effect on their lives. When a home run slugger strikes out (as most of them do with some frequency), he is not automatically taken out of the game and a pinch hitter sent in. After all, pinch-hitters can also strike out, and they may not be as likely to hit a home run. Although it was fashionable at one time to represent the Roosevelt administration as having rescued the United States from the Great Depression of the 1930s, all previous American depressions had come and gone without significant government action-and prosperity had returned much more quickly in earlier times. Presidents Hoover and Roosevelt both tried to use the powers of the federal government to restore the economy-something previous presidents had not done. However good the intentions of these two presidents, economists and other scholars who have studied that era in depth have increasingly concluded that they made matters worse. Whatever the merits or demerits of government economic policies, in the United States or in other countries around the world, the market alternative is very new as history is measured, and the combination of democracy and a free market still newer and rarer. As an observer in India put it: We tend to forget that liberal democracy based on free markets is a relatively new idea in human history. In 1776 there was one liberal democracy-the United States; in 1790 there were 3, including France; in 1848 there were only 5; in 1975 there were still only 31. Today 120 of the world's 200 or so states claims to be democracies, with more than 50 percent of the world's population residing in them (although Freedom House, an American think tank, counts only 86 countries as truly free). ECONOMIC MEASUREMENT Because a national economy includes such a huge mixture of ever-changing goods and services, merely measuring the rate of inflation is much more I chancy than confident discussions of statistics on the subject might indicate. As already noted, cars and houses have changed dramatically over the years. If the average car today costs X percent more than it used to, does that mean that there has been X percent inflation or that most of that change has represented higher prices paid for higher quality and additional features? No one calls it inflation when someone who has been buying Chevrolets in years past begins to buy Cadillacs and pays more money for them. Why then call it inflation when a Chevrolet begins to have features that were once reserved for Cadillacs and its costs rise to levels once charged for Cadillacs? Another Source of inaccuracy in measuring inflation is in the things that are included and not included in the statistics used to create an index of inflation, such as the Consumer Price Index. Everything cannot be included in an index, both because of