from other people who specialized in producing particular goods? The answer is of course that specialists could produce better products at lower costs. But, so long as family farms were isolated-that is, could receive specialized products only with high transportation costs added-a self-sufficient way of life made sense. But, once the transportation system was able to bring a wheat farmer numerous consumer products at affordable prices, and to carry his wheat to market at lower cost, it made more sense for the family to spend their time growing more wheat, instead of making homespun clothing, because they could buy their clothing with what they earned from selling more wheat, and still have something left over. Everything depends on whether the time and efforts required to produce their own clothing directly would yield more clothing in the end if put into growing wheat to sell. That same principle applies not only to clothing but to other products as well-and regardless of whether those products are produced within the same national borders or on the other side of the world. That is the basis for international trade. Although this is often described as trade between nations, it is in fact trade between individuals. Each individual decides whether what is bought is worth it, in the light of other options available. Each Frenchman decides for himself whether he wants to see a movie made in Hollywood and each person in Singapore decides whether to buy a camera made in Germany or Japan. International trade is not a zero-sum contest between nations, but a wide array of voluntary transactions between individuals living in different countries, who must all gain if these transactions are to continue. International trade is just one more way of getting more output from scarce resources which have alternative uses. Just as trade restrictions such as the American Hawley-Smoot tariffs of the 1930s damaged the already ailing U.S. economy of the Great Depression, the North American Free Trade Agreement of 1993 helped enhance the prosperity of the 1990s, creating more jobs and reducing unemployment to record low levels, despite the cries of protectionists that NAFTA would lead to a massive flight of jobs from America to low-wage countries elsewhere. . The growth of international trade and international finance over the years is one sign of the benefits it produces. This growth has generally exceeded the growth of the national economies involved, so that international transactions have become a larger proportion of all transactions. Even an economy like that of the United States, where international trade played a relatively small role at one time, has seen its international component rising, both in trade and in investment in and from other economies. Third World countries and formerly Communist countries which once severely restricted their international economic transactions have increasingly opened up their economies to the international economy. The term "globalization" has been used to describe this process of expanded international commerce and investment, though there has long been much global economic activity by