D. Rockefeller likewise established the foundation that bears his name and the University of Chicago, as well as creating many other philanthropic enterprises. Halfway around the world, the Tata Institute in Bombay was established by the country's leading industrialist, J. R. Tata. In eighteenth century Britain, canals were built with donations from businessmen. The United States, which has come to epitomize capitalism in the eyes of any people around the world, is unique in having hundreds of colleges, hospitals, foundations, scholarship funds, libraries, museums and other institutions created by the donations of private individuals, many of these being individuals who earned money in the market place and then devoted much . it-sometimes most of it-to helping others. Businessweek magazine in >02 listed numerous entrepreneurs who had donated hundreds of millions : dollars each-and some, billions-to philanthropy. The market as a mechanism for the allocation of scarce resources among alternative uses is one ling; what one chooses to do with the resulting wealth is another.l What lofty talk about "non-economic values" usually boils down to is that some people do not want their own particular values weighed against anything. If they are for saving Mono Lake or preserving some historic building, then they do not want that weighed against the cost-which is to say, ultimately, against all the other things that might be done instead with the same :sources. For such people, there is no point considering how many Third World children could be vaccinated against fatal diseases with the money that is spent saving Mono Lake or preserving a historic building. We should vaccinate those children and save Mono Lake and preserve the historic building-as well as doing innumerable other good things, according to this way of looking at the world. To people who think (or rather, react) in this way, economics is at best a nuisance that stands in the way of doing what they have their hearts set on 'Back in the 1960s, Professor George}. Stigler of the University of Chicago, already one of the leading economists of his day and destined to become a Nobel Prize winner, used to sell :prints of an article by Frank Knight to his graduate students for 25 cents each. It is very unlikely that either Stigler or Knight did this for the money. Rather, it was a way to allocate copies of the reprints- of which there was not an unlimited supply- so that they went to lose students who actually wanted to read them, rather than to all those who would have taken them if they had been handed out free of charge. doing. At worst, economics is seen as a needlessly narrow, if not morally warped, way of looking at the world. Such condemnations of economics are due to the fundamental fact that economics is the study of the use of scarce resources which have alternative uses. We might all be happier in a world where there were no such constraints to force us into choices and trade-offs that