William Tucker, published by the Cato Institute, a think tank in Washington. Many of the facts about rent control and homelessness in the United States are from The Excluded Americans by William Tucker (especially pages 19, 162,275 and Chapter 19, which discusses various elite celebrities living in rent-controlled apartments). The comment from the New York Times is from page 40 of an article by John Tierney in their Sunday magazine section of May 4, 1997, titled "At the Intersection of Supply and Demand." The fact that nearly half the rent-controlled apartments in San Francisco had only one tenant IS from page 21 of San Francisco Housing Databook, cited above. The paradox of higher rents in rent-controlled cities is from another study by William Tucker, "How Rent Control Drives Out Affordable Housing," Policy Analysis paper number 274, published by the Cato Institute. The decline of the housing stock under rent control in Washington is cited in an article by Thomas Hazlett in a book titled Resolving the Housing Crisis, published in 1982 by a San Francisco think tank, the Pacific Institute for Public Policy Research. San Francisco's experience under rent control is from a study whose results were reported on page 13 of the San Francisco Weekly of January 30, 2002 in an article titled "Legends in Our Own Minds," by Matt Smith. Data on the number of buildings taken over by the city government in New York can be found on page 99 of The Homeless by Christopher Jencks, published by Harvard University Press in 1994. The fact that building resumed in various Massachusetts communities after the state banned local rent control laws can be found in Rude Awakenings by Richard W. White, Jr., published in 1992 by ICS Press in San Francisco. Soviet economists' comments on the gasoline shortage in the United States are from page 89 of The Turning Point by Nikolai Shmelev and Vladimir Popov. Information on the amounts of gasoline sold during the 1970s gasoline shortages are from "Gas Crisis in New York: One Fact, Many Notions," New York Times, July 29, 1979, p. 30; Stephen Chapman, "The Gas Line of'79," The Public Interest, Summer 1980, page 47 and American Petroleum Institute, Basic Petroleum Data Book: Petroleum Industry Statistics, Vol. IV, No.3 (September 1984), Section VII, Table 8. The postwar meat shortage in the United States under price controls is discussed on pages 58 and 59 of Prices and Price Controls published by the Foundation for Economic Education, Inc., in Irvington-on-Hudson, New York. The agricultural price support program in general is covered in Chapter 1 of The Structure of American Industry by Walter Adams and James Brock. The surpluses of wheat and rice created by India's agricultural price support program were reported on page 63 of the Far Eastern Economic Review of December 6, 2001, in an article titled "The Problems of Plenty" by Joanna Slater. Information on the effects of price supports in the sugar industry are from a front-page article in the New York