in American courts and in the literature on anti-trust laws is to describe the percentage of sales made by a given company as the share of the market it "controls." By this standard, such now defunct companies as Graflex and Pan American "controlled" a substantial share of their respective markets, when in fact the passage of time showed that they controlled nothing, or else they would never have allowed themselves to be forced out of business. The severe shrinkage in size of such former giants as A & P and Smith-Corona likewise suggests that the rhetoric of "control bears little relationship to reality. But such rhetoric remains effective in courts of law and in the court of public opinion. Even in the rare case where a genuine monopoly exists on its own-that is, has not been created or sustained by government policy-the consequences in practice have tended to be much less dire than in theory. During the decades when the Aluminum Company of America (Alcoa) was the only producer of virgin ingot aluminum in the United States, its annual profit rate on its investment was about 10 percent after taxes. Moreover, the price of aluminum went down to a fraction of what it had been before Alcoa was formed. Yet Alcoa was prosecuted under the anti-trust laws and lost. Why were aluminum prices going down under a monopoly, when in theory they should have been going up? Despite its "control" of the market for aluminum, Alcoa was well aware that it could not jack up prices at will, without risking the substitution of other materials-steel, tin, wood, plastics-for aluminum by many users. This raises a question that applies far beyond the aluminum industry. Percentages of the market "controlled" by this or that company ignore the role of substitutes that may be classified as products of other industries, but which can nevertheless be used as substitutes by many buyers, if the price of the monopolized product rises significantly. A technologically very different product may serve as a substitute, as laptop computers did when they replaced portable typewriters, or as television did when it replaced many newspapers as Sources of information and entertainment. In Spain, when a high-speed train began to operate between Madrid and Seville, the division of passenger traffic between rail and air travel went from 33 percent rail and [ 67 percent air to 82 percent rail and 18 percent air. Advertising is clearly a market that encompasses technologically very different media, ranging from billboards to brochures, sky-writing, the Internet, newspapers and magazine ads, and commercials on television and radio. Different businesses spend differing proportions of their respective advertising budgets in these various media and change those proportions over time. Any particular advertising firm's "control" of any given percentage of the advertising in its own particular medium-say, billboards-would mean little if Jacking up its prices would lead advertisers to switch their advertising to newspaper ads, radio commercials, or some other medium. Those bringing anti-trust lawsuits generally seek to define