country without property rights, or with the food being owned "by the people," there was no given individual with sufficient incentives to ensure that this food did not spoil needlessly before it reached the consumers. Those who handled the food in transit were paid salaries, which were fixed independently of how well they did or did not safeguard the food. In theory at least, closer monitoring of produce handlers could have reduced the spoilage. But monitoring is not free. The human resources which go into monitoring are themselves among the scarce resources which have alternative uses. Moreover, monitoring raises the further question: Who will monitor the monitors? The Soviets tried to deal with this problem by having Communist Party members honeycombed throughout the society to report on derelictions of duty and violations of law. However, the widespread corruption and inefficiency found even under Stalinist totalitarianism suggest the (1) Similar practices were followed at a Soviet factory which produced metal pipes. Ordinary pipes were coated with oil to prevent corrosion, while stainless steel pipes were supposed to be kept away from oil because it ruined them. But the workers not only packed both kinds of pipes together, they even walked on top of stainless steel pipes with their oil-covered boots. The reason was that the authorities measured output in terms of railroad carloads of pipes that were shipped. Since there were not enough stainless steel pipes to fill a railroad car, they were lumped in with the ordinary pipes that were coated with oil. limitations of official monitoring, as compared to automatic self-monitoring by property owners. No one has to stand over an American farmer and tell him to take the rotten peaches out of a basket before they spoil the others, because those peaches are his private property and he is not about to lose money if he doesn't have to. Property rights create self-monitoring, which tends to be both more effective and less costly than third-party monitoring. Most Americans do not own any agricultural land or agricultural crops, but they have more and better food available at lower prices than in countries where there are no property rights in agricultural land or its produce, and where much food may spoil needlessly as a result. The only animals threatened with extinction are animals not owned by anybody. Colonel Sanders was not about to let chickens become extinct. Nor will McDonald's stand idly by and let cows become extinct. Likewise, it is things not owned by anybody (air and water, for example) which are polluted. In centuries past, sheep were allowed to graze on unowned 1and-"the commons," as it was called-with the net result that land on the commons was so heavily grazed that it had little left but patchy ground and the shepherds had hungry and scrawny sheep. But privately owned land adjacent to the commons was usually in far better condition. Similar neglect of unowned land occurred in the Soviet Union. According to Soviet economists, "forest areas that are