it may nevertheless have imposed considerable economic damage, sometimes enough to force the builder to abandon plans to build in that community. Similar principles apply when it comes to health regulations applied to imported fruits, vegetables, flowers, or other perishable things. While health regulations may have legitimate functions, just as environmental regulations may, it is also true that either or both can be used as ways of preventing people from doing what third parties object to, by the simple process of imposing high costs through delay. Time is money in yet another way. Merely by changing the age of retirement, governments can help stave off the day of reckoning when the pensions they have promised exceed the money available to pay those pensions. Hundreds of billions of dollars may be saved by raising the retirement age by a few years. This violation of a contract amounts to a default on a financial obligation on which millions of people were depending. But, to those who . do not stop to think that time is money, it may all be explained away politically in wholly different terms. Where the retirement age is not simply that of government employees but involves that of people employed by private businesses as well, the government not only violates its own commitments but violates prior agreements made between private employees and employers. In the United States, the government is explicitly forbidden by the Constitution from changing the terms of private contracts, but judges have over the years "interpreted" this Constitutional provision more or less out of existence. Where the government has changed the terms of private employment agreements, the issue has often been phrased politically as putting an end to "mandatory retirement" for older workers. In reality, there has seldom, if ever, been any requirement for mandatory retirement. What did exist was simply an age beyond which a given business no longer employed those who worked for it. These people remained free to work wherever others wished to employ them, usually while continuing to receive their pensions. Thus a professor who retired from Harvard might go teach at one of the campuses of the University of California, military officers could go to work for companies producing military hardware, engineers or economists could work for consulting firms, while people in innumerable other occupations could market their skills to whoever wanted to hire them. There was no mandatory retirement. Yet those skilled in political rhetoric were able to depict the government's partial default on its obligations to pay pensions at a given age as a virtuous rescue of older workers, rather than as a self-serving transfer of billions of dollars in financial liabilities from the government itself to private employers.! Remembering that time is money is, among other things, a defense against rhetoric, as well as an important economic principle in itself. ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENTS I Elimination of the ability of private employers to cease employing people at a given age had further economic repercussions, the most obvious being that