efficient production levels today runs into the hundreds of thousands. Back in 1896, the largest automobile manufacturer in the United States produced just six cars a year. At that level of output, with n average of two months of work required for producing each car, only the truly rich could afford to buy an automobile. It was Henry Ford whose mass production methods brought the cost of producing cars down within the price range of ordinary Americans. Similar principles apply in other industries. It does not cost as much to deliver a hundred cartons of milk to one supermarket as it does to deliver ten cartons of milk to each of ten different neighborhood stores scattered around town. Economies in beer production include advertising. Although Anheuser-Busch spends millions of dollars a year advertising Budweiser and its other beers, its huge volume of sales means that its advertising costs per barrel of beer are about two dollars less than that of its competitors Coors and Miller. Advertising has sometimes been depicted as simply another cost added to the cost of producing goods and services. However, in so far as advertising causes more of the advertised product to be sold, economies of scale n reduce production costs, so that the same product may cost less when it advertised. Advertising itself of course has costs, both in the financial sense and in the sense of using resources. But it is an empirical question, her than a foregone conclusion, whether the costs of advertising are greater or less than the reductions of production costs made possible by the economies of scale which it promotes. [This can obviously vary from one industry to another.] Economies of scale are only half the story. If economies of scale were the whole story, the question would then have to be asked: Why not produce cars in even more gigantic enterprises? If General Motors, Daimler, Chrysler, and Ford all merged together, would they not be able to produce cars even more cheaply and thereby make more profit than when they produce separately? Probably not. There comes a point, in every industry, beyond which the cost of producing a unit of output no longer declines as the amount of production increases. In fact, costs per unit actually rise after an enterprise becomes so huge that it is difficult to monitor and control, when the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing. General Motors is the largest manufacturer of automobiles in the world, but its cost of production per car is estimated to be hundreds of dollars more than the costs of Ford, Daimler Chrysler, or leading Japanese manufacturers. A small airline in the United States, Jetblue, has more than 30 percent lower cost per seat per mile than giants like United Airlines or American Airlines. Problems associated with size can affect quality as well as price. When frequent fliers and travel professionals were asked by Business Week magazine to rank the quality of airlines, the five top-rated