fifth largest company in America the previous year. Nor are such falls from the financial peaks confined to the United States. At one time, the largest bank in the world, Japan's Mizuho, had a $20 billion loss in its fiscal year ending in 2003 and the value of its stock fell by 93 percent. The amount by which its total stock value fell was greater than the Gross Domestic Product of New Zealand. At the heart of all of this is the role of profit-and of losses. Each is equally important from the standpoint of forcing companies and industries to use scarce resources efficiently. Industry and commerce are not just a matter of routine management, with profits rolling in more or less automatically. Masses of ever-changing details, within an ever-changing surrounding economic and social environment, mean that the threat of losses hangs over even the biggest and most successful businesses. There is a reason why business executives usually work far longer hours than their employees, and why so many businesses fail within a few years after getting started. Only from the outside does it look easy. Just as companies rise and fall over time, so do profit rates-even more quickly. When compact disks began rapidly replacing long-playing records in the late 1980s, Japanese manufacturers of CD players "thrived" according to the Far Eastern Economic Review. But "within a few years, CD-players only offered manufacturers razor-thin margins." This has been a common experience with many products in many industries. The companies which first introduce a product that consumers like may make large profits, but those very profits attract more investments into existing companies and encourage new companies to form, both of which add to output, driving down prices and profit margins through supply and demand. Sometimes profits then turn to losses, forcing some firms into bankruptcy until the industry's supply and demand balance at levels that are sustainable. Even the largest corporations can see profit turn to losses and vice versa. Sony lost $354 million in a six-month period and then, about a year later, had profits that topped one billion dollars. General Motors lost $30 billion during a three-year period in the early 1990s but rebounded under new management to earn nearly $4 billion in profits in 2002. Companies superbly adapted to a given set of conditions can be left behind when those conditions change suddenly and their competitors are quicker to respond. During the 1920s, for example, the A & P grocery chain in the United States was making a phenomenal rate of profit on its investment-never less than 20 percent per year, about double the national average-and it continued to prosper on through the decades of the 1930s and 1940s. But all this began to change drastically in the 1950s, when A & P lost more than $50 million in one 52-week period. A few years later, it lost $175 million over the same span of time. Its decline had begun. A & P's fate, both when it