be a problem when some official government policy establishes "national priorities"? 10. We tend to think of costs as the money we pay for things. But does that mean that there would be no costs in a primitive society that did not yet use money or in a modern cooperative community, where people collectively produce the goods and services they use and do not charge each other for them? 11. Adam Smith had a high opinion of capitalism, despite his low opinion of capitalists. How does this relate to the difference between systemic causation and intentional causation? 12. Why do American manufacturers of computers or television sets tend to have them transported by others while Chinese manufacturers tend to transport them themselves? 13. Explain how a fighter pilot's combat experience is a scarce resource which has alternative uses-and the consequences of allocating that resource in different ways. 14. Because most basic economic principles are relatively straightforward and not difficult to understand, they are often dismissed as too "simplistic" to explain the complexities of the real world. Critique that belief. 15. How can you put a price on music or health? PART II: INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE 1. What are some of the reasons why some of the biggest and most profitable businesses have declined into obscurity or even bankruptcy? 2. How and why can Toyota manufacture cars with only enough inventory of parts to last an hour, while Soviet industries had nearly enough inventory to last for a year? 3. In some industries, the four or five top firms may make the great majority of the sales in the whole industry. Moreover, that may be true for decades on end. Does this then mean that there is a lack of competition in this industry? 4. How did the movement of population from rural to urban America affect the economics of retail selling in the early twentieth century? How did the later movement of population from urban to suburban America in the second half of the twentieth century affect the economics of department stores, grocery stores, and hamburger restaurants? Explain with examples. 5. Why is it that General Motors can make millions of automobiles, without making a single tire to go on them, while Soviet enterprises not only tended to make all their own components, but sometimes even made the bricks for the buildings in which they operated? 6. How did diseconomies of scale in agriculture affect the way tractor drivers plowed fields in the Soviet Union? What if agricultural enterprises had been privately owned and the tractor drivers were plowing their own fields? Would the work have been done differently and would the farm be likely to be as large? Explain why. 7. Any given individual's knowledge is extremely limited, under any economic or political system. How does the effect of this limitation differ in an economy coordinated by prices than in an economy coordinated by central planners? 8. Advertising, even when it is successful, is often considered to be a