costs benefited not only its own customers, but those of other grocers as well. As the Wall Street Journal reported: When two Wal-Mart Super centers and a rival regional grocery open near a Kroger Co. supermarket in Houston last year, the Kroger's sales dropped 10%. Store manager Ben Bustos moved quickly to slash some prices and cut labor costs, for example, by buying ready-made cakes instead of baking them in house, and ordering pre cut salad-bar items from suppliers. His employees used to stack displays by hand. Now, fruit and vegetables arrive stacked and gleaming for display. Such moves have helped Mr. Bustos cut worker-hours by 30% to 40% from when the store opened four years ago, and lower the prices of staples such as cereal, bread, milk, eggs and disposable diapers. Earlier this year, sales at the Kroger facility finally edged up over the year before. In short, the economy operated more efficiently, to the benefit of the consumers, not only because of Wal-Mart's ability to cut costs and lower prices, but also because this forced Kroger's to do the same. This is a microcosm of what happens throughout a free market economy. It is no accident that people in such economies tend to have higher standards of living. PROFITS Profits are perhaps the most misconceived subject in economics. Socialists have long regarded profits as simply "overcharge," as Fabian socialist George Bernard Shaw called it, or a "surplus value" as Karl Marx, called it. "Never talk to me about profit," India's first prime minister, Jawaharal Nehru, warned his country's leading industrialist. "It's a dirty word." From all these men's perspectives, profits were simply unnecessary charges added on to the inherent costs of producing goods and services, driving up the cost to the customer. One of the great appeals of socialism, especially back when it was just an idealistic theory without any concrete examples in the real world, was that it sought to eliminate these supposedly unnecessary charges, making things generally more affordable, especially for people with lower incomes. Only after socialism went from being a theory to being an actual economic system in various countries around the world did the fact become painfully apparent that people in socialist countries had a harder time trying to afford things that most people in capitalist countries could afford with ease and took for granted. With profits eliminated, prices should have been lower in socialist countries, according to theory, and the standard of living of the masses correspondingly higher. Why then was it not that way in practice? Profits as Incentives Let us go back to square one. The hope for profits and the threat of losses is what forces a business owner in a capitalist economy to produce at the lowest cost and sell what the customers are most willing to pay for. In the absence of these pressures, those who manage enterprises under socialism have far less incentive to be as efficient as possible under given conditions, much less to keep