collected in capital gains taxes over the next four years. People adjusted their behavior to a more favorable outlook for investments by increasing their investments, so that the new 20 percent tax rate on the returns from these increased investments amounted to more revenue than that produced by the old 28 percent tax rate. Instead of keeping their money in tax-exempt municipal bonds, for example, investors would now find it more advantageous to invest in producing real goods and services With a higher rate of return, now that lower tax rates enabled them to keep more of their gains. It was much the same story halfway around the world in India: Lower income taxes brought greater compliance and more revenues for the treasury. Direct taxes in 1995-96 accounted for 29 percent of revenues, compared to 19 percent in 1990-91. Although it is common in politics and in the media. to refer to government's "raising taxes" or "cutting taxes," this blurs a crucial distinction between tax rates and tax revenues. The government can change tax rates but the reaction of the public to these changes can result in either a higher or a lower amount of tax revenues being collected. Thus references to proposals for a "$500 billion tax cut" or a "$700 billion tax increase" are wholly misleading because all that the government can enact is a change in tax rates, whose actual consequences can be determined only after the fact. The foresight of people subjected to various government policies can also cause results to differ from intentions when it comes to social policies. When money was appropriated by the U.S. government to help children with learning disabilities and psychological problems, the implicit assumption was that there was a more or less given number of such children. But the availability of the money created incentives for more children to be classified into these categories. Organizations running programs for such children had incentives to diagnose problem children as having the particular problem for which government money was available. Some low-income mothers on welfare even told their children to do badly on tests and act up in school, so as to add more money to their meager household incomes. Where Third World governments have contemplated confiscation of land for redistribution to poor farmers, many years can elapse between the political campaign for redistribution of land and the time when it is actually done. During those years, the foresight of existing landlords is likely to lead them to neglect to maintain the property as well as they did when they expected to reap the long-terms benefits of investing time and money in weeding, draining, fencing and otherwise caring for the land. By the time the land actually reaches the poor, it may be much poorer land. As one development economist put it, land reform can be "a bad joke on those who can least afford to laugh." The political popularity of threatening to confiscate the property of rich foreigners-whether land, factories, railroads or