are not. The American computer industry is a classic example. Over a period of more than a decade, the prices of computers declined by an average of more than 30 percent annually. Meanwhile, the advances in computer chip design led to a 30 percent annual increase in the power to process millions of pieces of information per second. Yet, during this incredible era of progress, some computer companies have operated at huge losses, while others have profited greatly. Data General lost $59 million dollars in one year, UNISYS lost $436 million and IBM lost $18 billion in two years. Resources were shifting to other firms that were providing more of what the consumers wanted at lower prices. Symbolic of these changes is that Microsoft's Bill Gates, once just a subcontractor to IBM, became the richest man in America while IBM was losing billions of dollars and laying off more than 100,000 employees. It was all part of the same process. Much the same story could be told of the airline industry. Between the last year of federal regulation in 1977 and twenty years later in 1997, the average air fare dropped by 40 percent and the average percentage of seats filled on planes rose from 56 percent to 69 percent, while more passengers than ever Were carried more safely than ever. Meanwhile, many airlines went bankrupt. That was the cost of greater efficiency. It has been estimated that, during the era of federal regulation, government intervention in the market had caused costs and fares to be 50 percent higher than they would have been in a free market. When the protection of federal regulation was removed, those airlines which could not survive with lower fares and rising fuel costs went out of business. Even people who understand the need for competition, and for both profits and losses, nevertheless often insist that it should be "fair" competition. But this is a slippery word that can mean almost anything. For many years, there were federal "fair trade" laws designed to prevent chain stores from selling merchandise below list price and thus driving smaller sellers out of business. With international trade likewise, there are those who say that they are for free trade, provided that it is "fair" trade. Here too, it means artificially keeping prices higher than they would be in the absence of government intervention, so that companies with higher costs of doing business can survive. Like discussions of fairness in other contexts besides economics, this kind of reasoning ignores the costs imposed on third parties-in this case, the consumers who pay needlessly high prices to keep less efficient businesses operating, using scarce resources which have more valuable alternative uses. Some people consider it a valid criticism of corporations that they are "just in business to make profits." By this kind of reasoning, workers are just working to earn their pay. In the process, however, they produce all the things that give their contemporaries the highest standard of living the world