politically or what its leaders understand intellectually. Both liberal and conservative economists, looking back on the Great Depression of the 1930s, have seen the Federal Reserve System's monetary policies during that period as confused and counterproductive. Milton Friedman called the people who ran the Federal Reserve System in those years "inept" and John Kenneth Galbraith called them a group with "startling incompetence." For example, the Federal Reserve raised the interest rate in 1931, as , the downturn in the economy was nearing the bottom, with businesses failing and banks collapsing all across the country, along with massive unemployment. Today, any student in Economics 1 who answered an exam question by saying that the way to get out of a depression is to raise the interest rate would be risking a zero for that answer, since higher interest rates reduce the amount of credit and therefore further reduce aggregate demand at a time when more demand is needed. Nor were the presidents who were in office during the Great Depression any more economically sophisticated. Both Republican President Herbert Hoover and his Democratic successor, Franklin D. Roosevelt, thought that wage rates should not be reduced, so this way of adjusting to deflation was discouraged by the federal government-for both humanitarian and political reasons. The theory was that maintaining wage rates meant maintaining purchasing power, so as to prevent further declines in sales, output and employment. Unfortunately, this policy works only so long as people keep their jobs-and higher wage rates under given conditions mean lower employment. Therefore higher real wage rates per hour did not translate into higher aggregate earnings, on which higher aggregate demand depends. Both the Hoover administration and the Roosevelt administration applied the same reasoning--or lack of reasoning--to agriculture: The prices of farm products were to be kept up in order to maintain the purchasing power of farmers. President Hoover decided that the federal government should "give indirect support to prices which had seriously declined" in agriculture. President Roosevelt later institutionalized this policy in agricultural price support programs which led to mass destruction of food at a time of widespread hunger. In short, misconceptions of economics were bipartisan. Nor were such misconceptions confined to the United States. Writing in 1931, John Maynard Keynes said of the British government's monetary policies that the arguments being made for those policies "could not survive ten minutes' rational discussion." Monetary policy is just one of many areas in which it is not enough that the government could do things to make a situation better. What matters is what government is in fact likely to do, which can in many cases make the situation worse. THE BANKING SYSTEM We have already noted, in Chapter 12, one of the most important roles of a bank is serving as intermediaries to transfer savings from some people to others who need to borrow. Not only does this happen across generations, as discussed there, it happens also when money is lent to individuals and organizations of all sorts.