dire predictions of a "giant sucking sound" as American jobs would drawn to Mexico in the wake of the North American Free Trade Agreement of 1993 turned out to be completely wrong. Given the economic realities, it is by no means surprising that the number of American jobs increased and the unemployment rate in the United States fell to record lows, while the number of jobs in Mexico also increased by millions. Both countries gained for the same reasons that countries have gained from international trade for centuries-absolute advantage, comparative advantage, and economies of scale. . At any given time, it is undoubtedly true that some industries will be adverse1y affected by competing imported products, just as they are adversely affected by every other source of cheaper or better products. These other sources of greater efficiency are at work all the time, forcing industries to modernize, down size or go out of business. Yet, when this happens because of foreigners, it can be depicted politically as a case of our country versus theirs, when in fact it is the old story of domestic special interests versus consumers. During periods of high unemployment, politicians are especially likely to be under great pressure to come to the rescue of particular industries that are losing money and jobs, by restricting imports that compete with them. One of the most tragic examples of such restrictions occurred during the worldwide depression of the 1930s, when tariff barriers and other restrictions went up around the world. The net result was that world exports in 1933 were only one-third of what they had been in 1929. Just as free trade provides economic benefits to all countries simultaneously, so trade restrictions reduce the efficiency of all countries simultaneously, lowering standards of living, without producing the increased employment that was hoped for. In 1933, twenty distinguished American economists made a public appeal for reductions in tariffs, but without any effect on the existing or subsequent U.S. administrations. To politicians, 20 votes do not amount to much in a country the size of the United States. At any given time, a protective tariff or other import restriction may provide immediate relief to a particular industry and thus gain the political and financial support of corporations and labor unions in that industry. But, like many political benefits, it comes at the expense of others who may not be as organized, as visible, or as vocal. Economists have long blamed international trade restrictions around the world for needlessly prolonging the worldwide depression of the 1930s. But not only do economist have relatively few votes, many voters know little about economics. Many disastrous policies in many places and times have resulted from these two facts. "Infant Industries" One of the arguments for international trade restrictions that economists have long recognized as valid, in theory at least, is that of protecting "infant industries" temporarily until they can develop the skill and experience necessary to compete with long-established foreign competitors. Once this point is reached,