continued to be a luxury confined to the rich. By 1994, most American households living below the official poverty line had a microwave oven and a video cassette recorder, things that less than one percent of all American households had in 1971. For the population at large, homes were much bigger, automobiles were much better, and more Americans were connected to the Internet at the end of the twentieth century than Were connected to a water supply at the beginning of that century. This was clearly not a zero-sum activity, in which what was gained by some was lost , by others. Other countries have shown similar patterns. In New Zealand, for example, most people whose incomes were in the lowest quarter owned a video cassette recorder, a freezer, a washing machine, and a vehicle. 'The song was "Tea for Two." Media and even academic preoccupation with instant snapshot statistics create major distortions of economic reality. "The rich" and "the poor" have become staples of income discussions, even though most people in the top and bottom income categories may be the same people at different stages of their lives, at least in Western countries, rather than fixed classes of people who remain at the top and bottom throughout their lives. Even among American millionaires, studies show that four-fifths of them did not inherit their fortune but earned it during their own lifetimes. The great historic American fortunes-Carnegie, Ford, Vanderbilt, etc.-were often created by people who began in modest or even humble circumstances. Richard Warren Sears, Aaron Montgomery Ward, and James Cash Penney all began working to support themselves in lowly jobs as teenagers, too young to be allowed to work under today's child labor laws, though each eventually rose to become fabulously wealthy as creators of the retail store chains that bore their respective names. Similar stories could be told of teenage Henry Ford, who became fed up with farm work and walked eight miles to Detroit to look for a job. David Sarnoff, who went on in later life to create the NBC broadcasting network, likewise began working to support himself as a teenager by selling newspapers on the streets. Another teenager who supported himself was an immigrant lumberyard worker named Frederick Weyerhauser, who went on to establish a wood products empire. The list goes on and on. While such stories have long been part of what has been called the American Dream, dramatic social mobility has not been confined to the United States. Despite India's reputation as a rigid, caste-ridden society, it has likewise had its rags-to riches stories, especially as more free markets emerged toward the end of the twentieth century. Dhiruhai Ambani, for example, was born in poverty and was able to go as far as high school only because he was admitted as a "free student"-and he was too poor to continue on to college. His first job was pumping gas at a filling station, his second job was as a shipping clerk. But from