Unless the law protects contracts and property rights, huge sums of money are unlikely to be forthcoming for economic development, especially since huge sums of money are often a result of aggregating modest sums of money from millions of people, such as stockholders in giant corporations. Judges and politicians face a constant temptation to intervene in the economy, in order to do something "good" or at least popular, even when that infringes or violates contracts and property rights. At an extreme, property may be confiscated or, as it is phrased politically, "nationalized." Seldom does this lead to a more efficient operation of existing enterprises, quite aside from the deterrent effect against other enterprises which then avoid coming into a country where such actions are threatened, much less carried out. The complexity of financial institutions means that relatively few people are likely to understand them, which makes them vulnerable politically. here those who do have the expertise to operate such institutions are either foreigners or domestic minorities, they are especially vulnerable. Money-lenders have seldom been popular and terms like "Shylock" or even "speculator" are not terms of endearment. Many unthinking people in many countries and many periods of history have regarded financial activities as not "really" contributing anything to the economy and have regarded the people who engage in such financial activities as mere parasites. This was especially so at a time when most people engaged in hard physical labor in agriculture or industry, and were both suspicious and resentful of people who simply sat around handling pieces of paper and money, while producing nothing that could be seen or felt. Centuries-old hostilities have arisen-and have been acted upon-against minority groups who played such roles, whether they were Jews in Europe, overseas Chinese minorities in Southeast Asia, or Chettiars in their native India or in Burma, East Africa, or Fiji. Often such groups have been expelled or harassed into leaving the country-sometimes by mob violence-because of popular beliefs that they were parasitic. Those with such misconceptions have then often been surprised to discover economic activity and the standard of living declining in the wake of their departure. An understanding of basic economics could have prevented many human tragedies, as well as many economic inefficiencies. TIME AND MONEY The old adage, "time is money" is not only true but has many serious implications. Among other things, it means that whoever has the ability to delay has the ability to impose costs on others-sometimes devastating costs. People who are planning to build housing, for example, often borrow millions of dollars to finance the construction of homes or apartment buildings, and must pay the interest on these millions, whether or not their construction is proceeding on schedule or is being delayed by some legal challenge or by some political decision by officials who are in no hurry to decide. Huge interest payments can be added to the cost of the construction itself while claims of environmental damage are investigated or while local commissioners wrangle