oil from these wells would exceed the price it would sell for in the market. If the price later rises-or if the cost of extraction or processing is lowered by some new technology-then such oil wells will be put back in operation again. There is no fixed supply of oil-or of most other things. When people project that there will be a shortage of engineers or teachers or housing in the years ahead, they usually either ignore prices or implicitly assume that there will be a shortage at today's prices. But shortages are precisely what cause prices to rise. At higher prices, it may be no harder to fill vacancies for engineers or teachers than today and no harder to find housing, as rising rents cause more homes and apartment buildings to be built. Price fluctuations are a way of letting a little knowledge go a long way. Price changes guide people's decisions through trial and error adjustments to what other people can and will pay as consumers, as well as what they can and will supply as producers. The producer whose product turns out to have the combination of features that are closest to what the consumers really want may be no wiser than his competitors. Yet he can grow rich while his competitors who guessed wrong go bankrupt. But the larger result is that society as a whole gets more benefits from its limited resources by having them directed toward where those resources produce the kind of output that millions of people want, instead of producing things that they don't want. Rationing by Prices There are all kinds of prices. The prices of consumer goods are the most obvious examples but labor also has prices called wages or salaries, and borrowed money has a price called interest. In addition to prices for tangible things, there are prices for services ranging from haircuts to brain surgery and from astrology to advice on speculating in gold or soybeans. Prices provide incentives to conserve. That is why the Israeli kibbutz used less electricity and less food after it began to charge its members for these things, and why American enterprises used less input for a given output than their Soviet counterparts that did not have to worry about prices or profits. In so far as prices-whether of soybeans or surgery-result from supply and demand in a free market, they effectively allocate scarce resources which have alternative uses. So long as people are free to spend their money for what they see fit, price changes in response to supply and demand direct resources to where they are most in demand and direct people to where their desires can be satisfied most fully by the existing supply. Simple as all this may seem, it contradicts many widely held ideas. For example, high prices are often blamed on "greed" and people often speak of something being sold for more than its "real" value, or of workers being paid less than they are "really" worth.