of hiring more drivers for regular-sized busses. However it is done, increased substitution of capital for labor leaves other workers unemployed. For the working population as a whole, this is no net increase in job security. It is a concentration of the insecurity on those who happen to be on the outside looking in. Meanwhile, the total number of jobs can decrease, or be less than it would have been otherwise, as a result of job security laws and policies which increase the costs of employing workers. It is much the same story in the American academic world, where associate professors and full professors usually have lifetime tenure, while assistant professors, lecturers and instructors work on short-term contracts. The job Insecurity of the latter faculty members can be far greater than in other sectors of the economy where there is no tenure, and therefore where there are more new jobs opening up. But, in academia, tenured professors have unchallenged possession of jobs that would otherwise be available. Again, those on the inside looking out benefit at the expense of those on the outside looking in, while the higher expenses entailed by tenure make the whole system more expensive to those who pay tuition and taxes to support it. Even military personnel in the NATO countries have job security. One consequence is that the average age of soldiers in Belgium's armed forces is 40, compared to 28 in the American military. Soldiers are unionized in Europe and, through job security and other policies, absorb a much higher percentage of NATO's military spending, leaving less for spending on equipment and weapons. Thus, while the United States spends about 36 percent of its military budget on personnel, Belgium spends 68 percent and Portugal 81 percent. The result is obsolete NATO military equipment that can cost lives in the event of combat. Meanwhile, NATO troops get generous vacations and work light enough schedules to allow many of them to pursue part-time civilian careers. In one Belgian military hospital, "doctors now work four-hour days for full-time pay, allowing some of them to set up private practices," according to a news item in the Wall Street Journal. What all this will mean if NATO armies have to fight, using over-age soldiers and obsolete equipment, is a question that can get ignored by those politicians who do not think beyond the next election, where their generosity with the taxpayers' money can be expected to payoff in votes from those who have benefited. Even in the absence of formal laws and policies on job security, there are many efforts to preserve jobs threatened by technological change, foreign imports or other sources of cheaper or better products. Virtually all these efforts likewise ignore the danger that greater security for some given set of workers can come at the expense of lessened job opportunities for other workers, as well as needlessly high prices for consumers. One of the emotionally powerful arguments heard in politics and the media during the "down-sizing"