Yet those skilled in political rhetoric were able to depict the government's partial default on its obligations to pay pensions at a given age as a virtuous rescue of older workers, rather than as a self-serving transfer of billions of dollars in financial liabilities from the government itself to private employers.! Remembering that time is money is, among other things, a defense against rhetoric, as well as an important economic principle in itself. ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENTS I Elimination of the ability of private employers to cease employing people at a given age had further economic repercussions, the most obvious being that it now became harder for younger workers to move up the ladder, with older employees at the top blocking their rise by staying on. From the standpoint of the economy as a whole, there was a loss of efficiency. The elimination of a "mandatory retirement" age meant that, instead of automatically phasing out employees when they reached the age at which productivity usually begins to decline, employers now faced the prospect of having to prove that decline in each individual case to the satisfaction of third parties in government, in order to avoid an "age discrimination" lawsuit. The costs and risks of this meant that many older people would be kept employed when there were younger people who could perform their duties more efficiently. As for those older individuals whose productivity did not decline at the usual age, employers had always had a option to waive retirements on an individual basis. Neither for the employer nor the employee was there in fact a mandatory retirement age. Time is important in another sense, in that most economic adjustments take time, which is to say, the consequences of decisions unfold over time-and markets adjust at different rates for different decisions. Even the most fervent believer in free market economics does not believe that you can throw yourself off a cliff and depend on someone to sell you a parachute on the way down. On the other hand, you can usually go spend a year in a city where you have never been before, and therefore have no idea where to get food, without any danger of starving, because the market will be sure to supply , you. No doubt, if enough free market enthusiasts leaped off the same cliff regularly, someone would open a parachute store nearby, because the market does adjust, though not instantaneously. The fact that economic consequences take time has enabled many people to have successful political careers by creating current benefits at future costs. Government-financed pension plans are perhaps a classic example, since great numbers of voters are pleased to be covered by pension plans, while only a few economists and actuaries point out that there is not enough wealth set aside to cover the promised benefits-and it will be decades before the economists and actuaries are proved right. With time comes risk, given the limitations of human foresight. This inherent risk must be sharply distinguished from the