with money in such abundant supply as to create inflation. When the RFC was finally closed down by Congress in 1953, the blow was softened politically by creating a "temporary" agency called the Small Business Administration to do some of the things that the RFC had been doing, but only for small and presumably struggling enterprises. Just a few years later, however, the SBA was made permanent--and then grew by leaps and bounds in the decades ahead. Despite its rationale of helping small "mom and pop" businesses, SBNs loans seldom went to such businesses and in fact concentrated on businesses of some substantial size-in one extreme case, a business with 30,000 employees and annual sales of nearly a billion dollars. Far from helping small businesses get started, it was helping a failed big business to drag out its death throes for a few more years with the taxpayers' money. Whatever Congress or the voters may have thought when they supported the creation of this agency, once it was in existence it responded to an ever-changing variety of political pressures and opportunities, taking on roles never contemplated when it was created. Chapter 18 An Overview The economic principles involved in discussions of the national economy are not overly complicated but two crucial misconceptions need to be guarded against: (1) the fallacy of composition and (2) assessing economic activity as if it were a zero-sum game, in which what is gained by some is lost by others. There are also sometimes misconceptions of the nature of government, leading to unrealistic demands being made on it and hasty denunciations of the "stupidity" or "irrationality" of government officials when those demands are not met. ZERO-SUM THINKING The notion that what is gained by some must be lost by others is seldom explicitly expressed. Rather, it is implicit in much discussion-and even laws and policies-dealing with labor-management relations, landlord-tenant relations, or the relations among classes or ethnic groups. Zero-sum thinking also dominates much discussion of international trade, as will become painfully clear in Chapter 19. Minimum wage laws, for example, are often advocated by those who see themselves as taking the side of the workers against their employers, when in fact the employers may end up less harmed by such laws than are the workers themselves, whose unemployment can deprive them of both current income and the human capital that work experience could build up for them and enable them to earn higher incomes in the future. Similarly, rent control often ends up harming both tenants and landlords, though in different ways. Landlords are unlikely to end up living homeless on the streets, though some former tenants may, given that homelessness is particularly prevalent in cities with strong rent control laws. Individuals who stand in the relationship of employer and employee, or landlord and tenant, would never have entered into such relationships in the first place unless both sides expected to become better off than they would have been if they had not entered into