are willing to stop and think, basic economics provides some tools for evaluating policies and proposals in terms of their logical implications and empirical consequences. If this book has contributed to that end, then it has succeeded in its mission. QUESTIONS PART I: PRICES AND MARKETS growing scarcity? Explain with examples. 1 Can a decision be economic, if there is no money involved? Why or why not? 2 Can there be surplus food in a society where people are hungry? Explain why or why not. 3 When a country goes from having a housing shortage to having a housing surplus, within a time period too short for any new housing to have been built, what has probably happened? 4 Which of the following are-or are not--affected by price controls that limit how high the product's price can go: (a) the quantity supplied, (b) the quantity demanded, (c) the quality of the product, (d) a black market for the product, (e) the supply of auxiliary services that usually go with the product, (f) efficiency in the allocation of resources or (g) the average level of honesty among those who sell or rent the product. Explain in each case. 5 Building ordinary housing and luxury housing involves using many or the same resources, such as bricks, pipes, and construction labor. How does the allocation of these resources between ordinary housing and luxury housing tend to change after rent control laws are passed? 6 Are prices usually higher or lower in low-income neighborhoods. Why? Include among prices the interest rate on money borrowed and the cost of getting paychecks cashed. If you were considering opening a business in a low-income neighborhood, would you expect to make a higher or a lower rate of profit there than you would receive if you opened the same business in a middle-class or affluent neighborhood? 7. Which kind of business is more likely to locate in each kind of neighborhood-a highly successful supermarket chain or a small independent business run by recent immigrants with a limited knowledge of English? Why would each kind of business tend to locate in one place but not the other? 8. When a government institution or program produces counterproductive results, is that a sign of irrationality on the part of those who run that particular institution or program? 9. We all consider some things more important than others. Why then can there be a problem when some official government policy establishes "national priorities"? 10. We tend to think of costs as the money we pay for things. But does that mean that there would be no costs in a primitive society that did not yet use money or in a modern cooperative community, where people collectively produce the goods and services they use and do not charge each other for them? 11. Adam Smith had a high opinion of capitalism, despite his low opinion of capitalists. How does this relate to the difference between systemic causation and intentional causation? 12. Why do