it has to meet the standards set by the competition of Wendy's and Burger King. If Campbell's soup were identified on the label only as "soup"-or "Tomato Soup," "Clam Chowder," etc.-the pressures on all canned soup producers to maintain both safety and quality would be less. In countries where there are no brand names, or where there is only one producer created or authorized by the government, the quality of the product or service tends to be notoriously low. During the days of the Soviet Union, the country's only airline, Aeroflot, became the epitome of bad service and rudeness to passengers. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, a new privately financed airline began to have great success, in part because its passengers appreciated being treated like human beings for a change. The management of the new airline declared that its employment policy was that it would not hire anyone who had ever worked for Aeroflot. Similarly, one of the reasons for the great success of McDonald's in Moscow-the largest McDonald's in the world, with lines of people waiting to get into it-is that it was being compared to the previous bad quality of service in Soviet restaurants, not to Wendy's or Burger King. Competition in the marketplace affects not only price but quality. Brand names make the competitors responsible for both. THE ROLE OF PROFITS Business and the Market Those who favor government intervention in the economy often depict those who prefer free competition as pro-business apologists. This has been profoundly wrong for at least two centuries. Adam Smith, the eighteenth century father of free-market economics, was so scathingly critical of businessmen that it would be impossible to find a single favorable reference to them in his 900-page classic, The Wealth of Nations.Instead, Smith warned against "the clamor and sophistry of merchants and manufacturers." Any suggestions about laws and policies coming from such people, he said, ought to be "carefully examined, not only with the most scrupulous, but with the most suspicious attention." In the nineteenth century, the next great classical economist in the free-market tradition, David Ricardo, spoke of businessmen as "notoriously ignorant of the most obvious principles" of economics. Knowing how to run a business is not the same as understanding the larger and very different issues involved in knowing how the economy as a whole affects the population as a whole. Skepticism about the business community has remained part of the tradition of free-market economists throughout the twentieth century as well, with Milton Friedman's views being very similar to those of Adam Smith on this point. Free market competition has often been opposed by the business community, from Adam Smith's time to our own. It was business interests which promoted the pervasive policies of government intervention known as "mercantilism" in the centuries before Smith and others made the case for ending such interventions and establishing free markets. Then, after free market principles had gained wider acceptance in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, business leaders were of