be years later and enormous amounts of resources would be wasted in the meantime. The wastefulness of a centrally planned economic system translated into a painfully low standard of living for millions of Soviet citizens, living in a country with some of the richest natural resources anywhere in the world. Their standard of living was low, not only by comparison with that in the United States, but also compared to the standard of living in countries with far fewer natural resources, such as Japan and Switzerland. Efficiency is more than just an abstract concept of economists and accountants. It directly translates into the well-being of hundreds of millions of human beings. The problems faced by the Soviet economy were not due to deficiencies peculiar to Russians or the other peoples of the Soviet Union. Americans faced very similar problems when the U. S. government was controlling the price of gasoline and its allocation during the 1970s. Under these conditions, both individuals and businesses had to drastically curtail their use of gasoline in some locations, such as New York and Washington, while in some other places-mostly rural areas-there was a surplus of unsold gasoline. This was not due to stupidity on the part of government allocators, but to the fact that a process that is relatively simple, when prices direct resources and products where millions of individuals want them to go, is enormously complex when a set of central planners seeks to substitute their necessarily very limited knowledge for the knowledge scattered among all those vast numbers of people in highly varying circumstances. The federal government issued 3,000 pages of regulations, supplemented by various official "clarifications," but none of this allocated gasoline as smoothly as the ordinary operations of a free market price system. To know how much gasoline should be sent where and when requires an enormous amount of knowledge of when and where it is most in demand at any given moment--and that changes throughout the year, as well as varying from place to place. People drive more to particular vacation spots during the Summer and more diesel-powered trucks carry produce to and from other places at harvest time, in addition to other changing uses of motor vehicles for all sorts of other reasons. Nobody in any kind of economic or political system can possibly know the specifics of all these things. The advantage of a price-coordinated economy is that nobody has to. The efficiency of such an economy comes from the fact that vast amounts of knowledge do not ever have to be brought together, but are coordinated automatically by prices that Convey in summary and compelling form what innumerable people want. h The difference between the limited knowledge of a business executive and the similarly limited knowledge of a government official is that the business executive is receiving instructions from others via the marketplace on what to t;-Whom to supply, and when, with what kinds of fuel, in this case-while the government official is giving instructions to