subsidies, purchases of the firm's or industry's products by government agencies, or by other such means. The interaction that is ignored by those advocating such policies is that everything the government spends is taken from somebody else. The 10,000 jobs saved in the widget industry may be at the expense of 15,000 jobs lost elsewhere in the economy by the government's taxing away the resources needed to keep those other people employed. We need only imagine what would have happened if the government had decided to "save jobs" in the typewriter industry when personal computers first appeared on the scene and began to take away customers from the typewriter manufacturers. If laws had been passed restricting the number of computers that could be sold, this would undoubtedly have saved the jobs of many people who manufactured typewriters or who produced typewriter ribbons, carbon paper, and other accessories. But there would have been fewer jobs created in the computer-manufacturing industry and in the many branches of the software industry. The fallacy is not in believing that jobs can be saved in given industries or given sectors of the economy. The fallacy is in believing that these are net savings of jobs for the economy as a whole. OUTPUT AND DEMAND One of the most basic things to understand about the national economy is how much its total output adds up to. We also need to understand the important role of money in the national economy, which was so painfully demonstrated in the Great Depression of the 1930s. The government is almost always another major factor in the national economy, even though it may not be in particular industries. As in many other areas, the facts are relatively straightforward and not difficult to understand. What gets complicated are the misconceptions that have to be unraveled. One of the oldest confusions about national economies is reflected in fears that the growing abundance of output threatens to reach the point where it exceeds what the economy is capable of absorbing. If this were true, then masses of unsold goods would lead to permanent cutbacks in production, leading in turn to massive and permanent unemployment. Such an idea has appeared from time to time over more than two centuries, though usually not among economists. However, a Harvard economist of the mid-twentieth century named Seymour Harris seemed to express such views when he said: "Our private economy is facing the tough problem of selling what it can produce." A popular, best-selling author of the 1950s and 1960s named Vance Packard expressed similar worries about "a threatened overabundance of the staples and amenities and frills of life" which have become "a major national problem" for the United States." Yet today's output is several times what it was when Professor Harris and Mr. Packard expressed their worries, and many times what it was in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, when others expressed similar worries. Why has this not created the problem that so many have feared for so