companies was reported on page 57 of The Economist, August 11,2001 issue, in an article titled "Unprofitable Policies." The imported components used to produce Britain's Mini Cooper automobile are mentioned on page W7 of the May 16, 2003 issue of the New York Times, in a story beginning on page W1 titled "A Tale of 2 Carmakers and 2 Countries" by John Tiagliabue. The relationship between the Jews and the Jains in Antwerp was reported on page B6 of the May 27, 2003 issue of the Wall Street Journal, in a story that began on page Blunder the title, "A New Facet of the Diamond Industry: Indians" by Dan Bilefsky. "The comment that the marketplace was "amoral" and the mayor of Stockton's comment that "life-sustaining" water could not be entrusted to private enterprise are from page 11 of the February 2, 2003 issue of the San Francisco Chronicle Magazine in an article titled "Profit on Tap?" by Daffodil Altan, et al. The report on the privatization of municipal water supply in Argentina is from page 68 of the March 22, 2003 issue of The Economist under the title "Raise a Glass." Comparisons of the private water system in England with the government-owned water system in Scotland are from page 56 of the May 31, 2003 issue of The Economist, under the title "Frozen Taps." The exchange between an official in India and an Indian entrepreneur trying to get him to reduce excise taxes is from page 234 of India Unbound by Gurcharan Das. Information on prices at various California grocery stores is from page 47 of the Winter/Spring 2001 issue of Bay Area Consumers' Checkbook. The quote from India's Prime Minister Nehru about the number of brands of toothpaste is from page 153 of India Unbound by Gurcharan Das. The competition between Federal Express and United Parcel Service for earlier delivery times was discussed on page 41 of 50 Companies that Changed the World by Howard Rothman, published in 2001 by Career Press. Josiah Wedgwood's pioneering in the use of brand names on consumer products was discussed on page 33 of Brand New by Nancy F. Koehn and Henry Heinz's pioneering in the use of brand names for processed foods on pages 59 and 60. The role of McDonald's in pioneering higher standards for French fries, hamburgers and milk shakes is from Chapter 6 of the revised 1996 edition of McDonald's: Behind the Golden Arches by John F. Love. The quotes from Adam Smith are from the Modern Library edition of The Wealth of Nations, pages 128 and 250. The quote from David Ricardo is from page 123 of Volume III of The Works and Correspondence of David Ricardo, edited by Piero Sraffa and published by Cambridge University Press. Business support for President Nixon's wage and price controls is mentioned on page 149 of The Suicidal Corporation by Paul Weaver. The fact that the bulk of agricultural subsidies go to big corporations, rather than to family farmers, can be verified