ability to delay has the ability to impose costs on others-sometimes devastating costs. People who are planning to build housing, for example, often borrow millions of dollars to finance the construction of homes or apartment buildings, and must pay the interest on these millions, whether or not their construction is proceeding on schedule or is being delayed by some legal challenge or by some political decision by officials who are in no hurry to decide. Huge interest payments can be added to the cost of the construction itself while claims of environmental damage are investigated or while local commissioners wrangle among themselves or with the builders over whether the builder should be required to add various amenities such as gardens, ponds, or bicycle paths, including amenities for the benefit of the general public, as well as those to whom homes will be sold or apartments rented. Weighing the costs of these amenities against the costs of delay, the builder may well decide to build things that neither he nor his customers want enough to pay for otherwise. In general, wherever A pays a low cost to impose high costs on B through delay, then A can either extort money from B or thwart B's activities that A does not like, or some combination of the two. Slow-moving government bureaucracies are a common complaint around the world, not only because bureaucrats usually receive the same pay whether they move slowly or quickly, but also because in some countries corrupt bureaucrats can add substantially to their incomes by accepting bribes to speed things up. The greater the scope of the government's power and the more red tape is required, the greater the costs that can be imposed by delay and the more lucrative the bribes that can be extorted. In less corrupt countries, bribes may be taken in the form of things extorted indirectly for political purposes, such as forcing builders to build things that third parties want-or not build at all, where either local home owners or environmental movements prefer leaving the status quo undisturbed. The costs of demanding an environmental impact report may be quite low, compared to the costs of the delay which this will impose in the form of mounting interest charges on millions of dollars of borrowed money that is left idle while this process goes on. Even if the report ends up finding no environmental damage, it may nevertheless have imposed considerable economic damage, sometimes enough to force the builder to abandon plans to build in that community. Similar principles apply when it comes to health regulations applied to imported fruits, vegetables, flowers, or other perishable things. While health regulations may have legitimate functions, just as environmental regulations may, it is also true that either or both can be used as ways of preventing people from doing what third parties object to, by the simple process of imposing high costs through delay. Time is money in yet another way. Merely by changing the age of retirement,