dual potentialities. By the same token, what are called "non-profit organizations" can be better understood when they are seen as non-profit and non-loss institutions-that is, institutions which operate free of the constraints of a bottom line. This does not mean that non-profit organizations have unlimited money. It does mean that, with whatever money they do have, non-profit organizations are under very little pressure to achieve their institutional goals to the maximum extent possible with the resources at their disposal. Those who supply those resources include the general public, who cannot closely monitor what happens to their donations or their taxes, and those whose money provided the endowments-$13 billion at Harvard, for example-that help finance non-profit institutions. Much or most of these endowments were left by people who are now dead, who cannot monitor at all. What would be called "losses" in other kinds of enterprises are called "deficits" in non-profit organizations and serve as reasons given when seeking donations or government subsidies to cover shortfalls. Non-profit organizations have additional sources of income, including fees from those who use their services, such as visitors to museums and audiences for symphony orchestras. These fees are in fact the main source of the more than half a trillion dollars in revenue received annually by non-profit organizations in America. However, these fees do not cover the full costs of their operation-which is to say, the recipients are receiving goods and services that cost more than these recipients are paying and some are receiving them free. Such subsidized beneficiaries cannot impose the same kind of economic discipline as the customers of a profit-and-loss business who are paying the full cost of everything they get. Under these conditions, the goals of those individuals who happen to be in charge of a non-profit institution at a given time can be substituted for the institution's ostensible goals or the goals of their donors or founders. It has been said, for example, that Henry Ford and John D. Rockefeller would turn Over in their graves if they knew what kinds of things are being financed today by the foundations which bear their names. While that is ultimately unknowable, it is known that Henry Ford II resigned from the board of the Ford Foundation in protest against what the foundation was doing with the money left by his grandfather. More generally, it is now widely recognized how difficult it is to establish a foundation to serve a given purpose and expect it to stick to that purpose after the money has been contributed and the donors are dead. Academic institutions, hospitals and foundations are usually non-profit organizations in the United States, although non-profit institutions cover a wide range and can also engage in activities normally engaged in by profit seeking enterprises, such as selling SunKist oranges or publishing The Smithsonian magazine. In whatever activities they engage, non-profit organizations are not under the same pressures to get "the most bang for the buck" as are enterprises in which profit and loss