than their latter-day followers. Or perhaps Marx and Engels were more concerned with economic efficiency than with maintaining political control from the top. PRICES IN ACTION There is perhaps no more basic or more obvious principle of economics than the fact that people tend to buy more at a lower price and less at a higher price. By the same token, people who produce goods or supply services tend to supply more at a higher price and less at a lower price. Yet the implications of these two principles, singly or in combination, cover a remarkable range of economic activities and issues-and contradict an equally remarkable range of misconceptions and fallacies. When people try to quantify a country's "need" for this or that product or service, they are ignoring the fact that there is no fixed or objective "need." The fact that people demand more at a lower price and less at a higher price may be easy to understand, but it is also easy to forget. Seldom, if ever, is there a fixed quantity demanded. For example, communal living in an Israeli kibbutz was based on its members' collectively producing and supplying their members' needs without resort to money or prices. However, supplying electricity and food without charging prices led to a situation where people often did not bother to turn off electric lights during the day and members would bring friends from outside the kibbutz to join them for meals. But, after the kibbutz began to charge prices for electricity and food, there was a sharp drop in the consumption of both. In short, there was no fixed quantity of "need" or demand. Likewise, there is no fixed supply. Statistics on the amount of petroleum, iron ore, or other natural resources seem to indicate that this is just a simple matter of how much physical stuff there is in the ground. In reality, most natural resources are available at varying costs of discovery, extraction, and processing. There is some oil that can be produced for $10 a barrel and other oil that cannot pay for all its costs at $20 a barrel, but which can at $30 a barrel. The quantity supplied varies directly with the price, just as the quantity demanded varies inversely with the price. When the price of oil falls, certain low-yield oil wells are shut down because the cost of extracting and processing the oil from these wells would exceed the price it would sell for in the market. If the price later rises-or if the cost of extraction or processing is lowered by some new technology-then such oil wells will be put back in operation again. There is no fixed supply of oil-or of most other things. When people project that there will be a shortage of engineers or teachers or housing in the years ahead, they usually either ignore prices or implicitly assume that there will be a shortage at today's prices. But shortages are precisely what cause prices to rise. At