Third World countries have considerable internal sources' of wealth which are not fully utilized for one reason or another-and this wealth often greatly exceeds whatever foreign aid such countries have ever received. In many poorer countries, much-if not most-economic activity takes place "off the books" or in the "underground economy" because the costs of red tape, corruption, and bureaucratic delays required to obtain legal permission to run a business or own a home put legally recognized economic activities beyond the financial reach of much of the population. These people may operate businesses ranging from street vending to factories or build homes for themselves or others, without having any of this economic activity legally recognized by their governments. According to The Economist magazine, in a typical African nation, only about one person in ten works in a legally recognized enterprise or lives in a house that has legally recognized property rights. In Egypt, for example, an estimated 4.7 million homes have been built illegally. In Peru, the total value of all the real estate that is not legally covered by property rights has been estimated as more than a dozen times larger than all the foreign direct investments ever made in the country in its entire history. Similar situations have been found in India, Haiti, and other Third World countries. The economic consequences of these legal bottlenecks in many countries can be profound because they prevent many existing enterprises, representing vast amounts of wealth in the aggregate, from developing beyond the small scale in which they start. Many giant American corporations began as very humble enterprises, not very different from those which abound In Third World countries today. Levi's, Macy's, Saks, and Bloomingdale's all began as peddlers, for example. While such businesses may get started with an individual's own small savings or perhaps with loans from family of friends, eventually their expansion into major corporations usually requires the mobilization of the money of innumerable strangers willing to become investors. But the property rights system which makes this possible has not been as accessible to ordinary people in Third World countries as it has been to ordinary people in the United States. An American bank that is unwilling to invest in a small business may nevertheless be willing to lend money to its owner in exchange for a mortgage on his home-but the home must first be legally recognized as his property. After the business becomes a major success, other strangers may lend money on its growing assets or invest directly as stockholders. But all of this too hinges on a system of dependable and accessible property rights, which is capable of mobilizing far more wealth internally than is ever likely to be transferred from other nations or from international agencies like the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund. THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM Wealth may be transferred from country to country in the form of goods and services, but by far the greatest transfers are made in the form of money.