is an investment from private sources that is guaranteed by their own government, which stands ready to reimburse them with taxpayers' money should their overseas investment prove unprofitable or the profits uncollectible. Thus when the Mexican government was on the verge of defaulting on its loans from American banks in 1996, the American government lent them the money to payoff these banks and other investors. Obviously, if these banks had been forced to take huge losses, they would have become more wary of risky investments in the future and in other countries. As we have seen in other contexts, losses play as important a role in the economy as profits, though they are not nearly as popular. Artificially preventing losses is reducing incentives to allocate resources efficiently. The periodic "forgiveness" of loans to Third World countries likewise reduces incentives for the governments of these countries to use the loans in ways that contribute to the growth of national wealth, from which the loans could be paid off. The only clear beneficiaries of such "forgiveness," aside from Third World political leaders who escape responsibility, are those people in wealthier donor countries who feel a sense of noblesse oblige. But the subsidizing of political irresponsibility has heavy costs that fall ultimately on the peoples of the poorer countries. The sums of money received in foreign aid are dwarfed by the sums of money available for investment internationally in countries with responsible and dependable governments. Moreover, as noted in Chapter 20, vast sources of untapped capital already exist within Third World countries themselves, in the form of economic assets which cannot be turned into financial assets because of the inaccessibility of property rights for most people in those countries. In short, the internal institutions and policies which inhibit international transfers of private investment to poor countries also inhibit the mobilization of investments based on existing assets within those countries. These assets also include human capital, which may be as under-utilized as the country's physical assets. Many Third World countries contain entrepreneurial minority groups-Chinese minorities in various Southeast Asian countries, Lebanese in West Africa, Indians in East Africa and Fiji-who have been subjected to discriminatory restrictions on their economic activities or have even been expelled or forced out by hostile public or governmental actions. Painful as the losses suffered by members of these minorities are when forced to leave countries where they were born, the losses suffered by the countries themselves after such groups have left have been a major factor in the continuing poverty of some Third World nations. For example, whole sectors of the Ugandan economy collapsed after 50,000 Indians and Pakistanis were forced to leave the country in the 1970s. Indigenous human capital may also leave because the political and institutional climate offers far less opportunity for individuals to advance economically than the opportunities available in some foreign countries. India, for all its poverty, has for centuries been an exporter of entrepreneurs, who have created thriving enterprises from the Caribbean to