per capita income rose 51 percent over the same period. The discrepancy , is due to the fact that the average size of families and households was declining during these years, so that smaller households were now earning about the same as larger households had earned a generation earlier. Rising prosperity was one reason for more people to be able to go set up .their own individual households, instead of continuing to live with parents or as roomers elsewhere, or by sharing an apartment with a roommate. Yet these consequences of prosperity generate household statistics that are . widely used to suggest that there has been no real economic progress. A Washington Post writer, for example, declared that "the incomes of most American households have remained stubbornly flat over the past three decades." It might be more accurate to say that some writers have remained stubbornly blind to economic facts. When two people in one household today earn the same total amount of money that three people were earning in one household in the past, that is a 50 percent increase in income per person-even when household income remains the same. Despite some confused or misleading discussions of "the rich" and "the poor," based on people's transient positions in the income streams, genuinely rich and genuinely poor people exist-people who are going to be living in luxury or in poverty all their lives-but they are much rarer than gross income statistics would suggest. Just as most American "poor" do not stay poor, so most rich Americans were not born rich. Four-fifths of American millionaires earned their fortunes within their own lifetimes, having inherited nothing. Moreover, the genuinely rich are rare, like the genuinely poor. Even if we take a million dollars in net worth as our criterion for being rich, only about 3.5 percent of American households are at that level. This is in fact a fairly modest level, given that net worth counts everything from household goods and clothing to the total amount of money in an individual's pension fund. If we count as genuinely poor that 3 percent of the population which remains in the bottom 20 percent over a period of years, then the genuinely rich and the genuinely Poor-put together-add up to a small fraction of the American population. Nevertheless, some political rhetoric might suggest that most people are either "haves" or "have nots." It is a common but misleading practice to try to determine whether inequality is increasing or decreasing by comparing the incomes of those in the top 20 percent with the incomes of those in the bottom 20 percent. If our concern is the well-being of flesh-and-blood human beings, rather than with statistical categories, then we need to consider not only those who are in given income brackets in a given year but also those who are constantly moving in and out of those brackets from year to year. When an absolute majority of those in the bottom 20 percent in income in