in India are from page 112 of India Unbound by Gurcharan Das and the comment on India's bank tellers is from The Economist of February 22,1997, in an article titled, "India's Companies Will Become Worldclass Only When They Are Forced to Compete." The McDonald's practice of making unannounced inspections of the suppliers of their hamburger meat and the potatoes used for French fries is from page 130 and 131 of McDonald's by John F. Love. Kroc's insistence on stringent cleanliness inside, outside and around each restaurant is detailed on pages 142 to 144 and 147. Henry J. Heinz's competitive advantages from selling unadulterated horseradish are discussed on pages 52 and 53 of Brand New: How Entrepreneurs Earned Consumers' Trust from Wedgwood to Dell by Nancy F. Koehn, published in 2001 by the Harvard Business School Press. Woolworth's early travails are recounted in the first three chapters of Remembering Woolworth's by Karen Plunkett-Powell. Information on the decline of urban newspapers and the rise of suburban papers is from Frank J. Prial, "Suburban Sprawl Also Applies to the Circulation of Newspapers," New York Times, November 18, 1990, p. E5. Lenin's estimate of how easy it was to run an enterprise was from his book The State and Revolution, written on the eve of the Bolshevik revolution. His later change of mind is from "The Fight to Overcome the Fuel Crisis," "The Role and Functions of Trade Unions Under the New Economic Policy," "Five Years of the Russian Revolution and the Prospects of the World Revolution," and "Ninth Congress of the Russian Communist Party (Bolsheviks)," all quoted from the 1951 edition of Selected Works by V. 1. Lenin, published in Moscow by the Foreign Languages Publishing House. The U.S. Supreme Court decision with the narrow definition of the market for shoes was Brown Shoe Co. v. United States, 370 U.S. 294 (1962). The decline in the number of pay telephones was reported in the May 14,2001 issue of Business Week on page 16. CHAPTER 9: PRODUCTIVITY AND PAY Comparisons of labor productivity in Japanese-owned and Chinese-owned cotton mills in China are from page 47 of The Rise of"The Rest" by Alice Amsden, published in 2001 by Oxford University Press. Comparisons of American-owned manufacturing firms in Britain and British-owned manufacturing firms were made on page 52 of the October 12, 2002 issue of The Economist under the title, "Blame the Bosses." Data on Americans' changing incomes between 1975 and 1991 are from pages 8 and 22 of the 1995 Annual Report of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Earlier studies indicating similar patterns include Years of Poverty, Years of Plenty by Greg Duncan et al, published by the University of Michigan Press. Similar changes in individual incomes in continental European countries were reported on page 5 of Poor Statistics: Getting the Facts Right About Poverty in Australia by Peter Saunders, published in April 2002 by the Center for Independent Studies in Sydney. Similar data on incomes in Britain and New Zealand were reported on