in the more developed country, SO that total costs of delivering the product to market are less. There are, after all, reasons why one country is more prosperous than another in the first place-and often that reason is that they are more efficient at producing and delivering output, for any of a number of reasons. In short, higher wage rates per unit of time are not the same as higher costs per unit of output. It may not even mean higher labor costs per unit of output-and of course labor costs are not the only costs. An international consulting firm determined that the average labor productivity in the modern sectors in India is 15 percent of labor productivity in the United States. In other words, if you hired an average Indian worker and paid him one-fifth of what you paid an average American worker, it would cost you more to get a given amount of work done in India than in the United States. Paying 20 percent of what an American worker makes to someone who produces only 15 percent of what an American worker produces would increase your labor costs. Labor costs are only part of the story. The cost of capital and management are a considerable part of the cost of many products. In some cases, capital costs exceed labor costs, especially in industries with high fixed costs, such as electric utilities and telephone companies, both of which have huge investments in transmission lines that carry their services into millions of homes. A prosperous country usually has a greater abundance of capital and, because of supply and demand, capital tends to be cheaper there than in poorer countries where capital is more scarce and earns a correspondingly higher rate of return. The history of the beginning of the industrialization of Russia under the czars illustrates how the supply of capital affects the cost of capital. When Russia began a large-scale industrialization program in the 1890s, foreign investors could earn a return of 17.5 percent per year on their investments until so many invested in Russia that the rate of return fell below 5 percent by 1900. Poorer countries with high capital costs would have difficulty competing with richer countries with lower capital costs, even if they had a real advantage in labor costs, which they often do not. Against this background, it may be easier to understand why dire predictions of a "giant sucking sound" as American jobs would drawn to Mexico in the wake of the North American Free Trade Agreement of 1993 turned out to be completely wrong. Given the economic realities, it is by no means surprising that the number of American jobs increased and the unemployment rate in the United States fell to record lows, while the number of jobs in Mexico also increased by millions. Both countries gained for the same reasons that countries have gained from international trade for centuries-absolute advantage, comparative advantage, and economies of scale. . At any given time,