one of many areas in which it is not enough that the government could do things to make a situation better. What matters is what government is in fact likely to do, which can in many cases make the situation worse. THE BANKING SYSTEM We have already noted, in Chapter 12, one of the most important roles of a bank is serving as intermediaries to transfer savings from some people to others who need to borrow. Not only does this happen across generations, as discussed there, it happens also when money is lent to individuals and organizations of all sorts. A student just emerging from dental school seldom has enough cash on hand to buy all the equipment and supplies needed to get started as a dentist. Almost no one has enough cash on hand to buy a house and many must buy a car with installment payments. Typically, the seller of a home or an automobile receives the full price immediately, not from the buyer, but from some financial institution whom the buyer must repay in installments. Modern banks, however, do more than simply transfer cash. Each individual bank may do that but the banking system as a whole does something more. It creates credits which, in effect, add to the money supply through what is called "fractional reserve banking." A brief history of how this practice arose may make the process clearer. Goldsmiths have for centuries had to have some safe place to store the precious metal that they use to make jewelry and other items. Once they had established a vault or other secure storage place, other people often stored their own gold with the goldsmith, rather than take on the cost of creating their own secure storage facilities. In other words, there were economies of scale in storing gold in a vault or other stronghold, so goldsmiths ended up storing other people's gold, as well as their own. Naturally, the goldsmiths gave out receipts entitling the owners to reclaim their gold whenever they wished to. Since these receipts were redeemable in gold, they were in effect "as good as gold" and circulated as if they were money, buying goods and services as they were passed on from one person to another. From experience, goldsmiths learned that they seldom had to redeem all the gold that was stored with them at any given time. If a goldsmith felt confident that he would never have to redeem more than one-third of the gold that he held for other people at any given time, then he could lend Out the other two-thirds and earn interest on it. Since the receipts for gold and two-thirds of the gold itself were both in circulation at the same time, the goldsmiths were, in effect, adding to the total money supply. In this way, there arose two of the major features of modern banking--(1) holding only a fraction of the reserves needed to cover deposits and (2) adding to the total money supply.