be a result of either simple causes or complex causes. The specific facts can tell us which. A priori pronouncements about what is "simplistic" cannot. Few things are more simple than the fact that people tend to buy more at lower prices and buy less at higher prices. But, putting that together with the fact that producers tend to supply more at higher prices and less at lower prices, that is enough to predict all sorts of complex reactions to price controls, Whether in the housing market or in the market for food, electricity, or ---------Purists may say that there is no up or down in space, but that simply requires rephrasing ..the same facts by saying that the axis on which the earth rotates is not perpendicular to the plane of the planet's orbit around the sun. medical care. Moreover, these reactions have been found on all inhabited continents and over thousands of years of recorded history. Simple causes and complex effects have been common among wide varieties of peoples and cultures. Individual Versus Systemic Rationality The tendency to personalize causation leads not only to charges that "greed" causes high prices in market economies, but also to charges that "stupidity" among bureaucrats is responsible for many things that go wrong in government programs. In reality, many of the things that go wrong in these programs are due to perfectly rational actions, given the incentives faced by government officials who run such programs and given the constraints on the amount of knowledge available to any given decision-maker or set of decision-makers. Where a policy or institution has been established by top political leaders, officials subject to their authority may well hesitate to contradict their beliefs, much less point out the counterproductive consequences that later follow from these policies and institutions. Messengers carrying bad news could be risking their careers or--under Stalin or Mao-their lives. Officials carrying out particular policies may be quite rational, however negative the impact of these policies may prove to be for society at large. During the Stalin era in the Soviet Union, for example, there was at one time a severe shortage of mining equipment, but the manager of a factory producing such machines kept them in storage after they were built, rather than sending them out to the mines, where they were sorely needed. The reason was that the official orders called for these machines to be painted with red, oil-resistant paint and the manufacturer had on hand only green, oil resistant paint and red varnish that was not oil-resistant. Disobeying official orders in any respect was a serious offense under Stalin and "I don't want to get eight years," the manager said. When he explained the situation to a higher official and asked for permission to use the green, oil-resistant paint, this official's response was: "Well, I don't want to get eight years either." However, the higher official cabled to his ministry for their permission to give his permission. After a long delay, the