genesis and consequences of President Nixon's wage and price controls is from pages 60 to 64 of The Commanding Heights by Daniel Yergin and Joseph Stanislaw and from an essay by Herbert Stein in the Wall Street Journal of August 25, 1996, page A 12. The comment that educational results "take a long time to come" is from page 313 of India Unbound by Gurcharan Das. The mention of a former EPA administrator's conclusions about removing toxic material is from page 11 of Breaking the Vicious Cycle: Towar Effective Risk Regulation by Stephen Breyer. The effects of small and large doses of saccharin on cancer in laboratory rats is from an article beginning on page 54 of the June 9, 2003 issue of Fortune magazine, titled "A Little Poison Can Be Good for You" by David Tripp. The costly cleanup of a toxic waste site in New Hampshire is discussed on pages 11 and 12 of Breaking the Vicious Cycle by Stephen Breyer. The bad effects of the gasoline additive MTBE on ground water has been discussed in many places, including the San Francisco Chronicle of August 19,2001 in a front page story titled "Congress Not told of MTBE Dangers," by William Carlson. Examples of private market ways of taking externalities into account are found in an article titled "Public Goods and Externalities" by Tyler Cowen in The Fortune Encyclopedia of Economics, edited by David R. Henderson. Franklin D. Roosevelt's use of presidential powers created during the First World War to take the United States off the gold standard is mentioned on page 86 of The New York Times Century of Business. The sketch of the evolution of the Small Business Administration is from pages 5 and 7 of Big Government and Affirmative Action: The Scandalous History of the Small Business Administration by Jonathan]. Bean, published in 2001 by the University of Kentucky Press. CHAPTER 18: AN OVERVIEW Examples of various policies in India are from India Unbound by Gurcharan Das. The argument that government policy worsened, rather than alleviated, the Great Depression can be found in A Monetary History of the United States by Milton Friedman and Anna J. Schwartz, pages 407-419, in Paul Johnson's A History of the American People, pages 737-760 and in Out of Work by Richard K. Vedder and Lowell E. Gallaway, pages 89-97, 137-146. The quote about favors to special interests by India's government is from page 318 of India Unbound by Gurcharan Das. The quote about how new and rare free market democracies are in from page 317 of the same book. The problems of Albanian and Czech banks in the post-Communist era were reported in The Economist of April 28, 2001 on pages 77 and 78. CHAPTER 19: INTERNATIONAL TRADE The epigraph by Henry Hazlitt is from page 87 of Economics in One Lesson by Henry Hazlitt. The comment from the New York Times about whether the United States was a "job winner" or a "job loser" from freer trade was from