and controlled to political influence in deciding to whom bank loans were to be made: I once chanced to meet the manager of one of the rural branches of a nationalized bank. . . He was a sincere young man, deeply concerned, and he wanted to unburden himself about his day-to-day problems. Neither he nor his staff, he told me, decided who qualified for a loan. The local politicians invariably made this decision. The loan takers were invariably cronies of the political bosses and did not intend to repay the money. He was told that such and such a person was to be treated as a "deserving poor." Without exception, they were rich. The nationalization of banks in India was not simply a matter of transferring ownership of an enterprise to the government. This transfer changed all the incentives and constraints from those of the marketplace to those of politics and bureaucracy. The proclaimed goals, or even the sincere hopes, of those who created this transfer often meant much less than the changed incentives and constraints. In the United States, political control of banks' investment decisions has been less pervasive but has nevertheless changed the directions that investments have taken from what they would be in a free market. The Community Investment Act, for example, requires banks to put a certain percentage of their investments into communities designated by government as being especially "needing" investments. Since there is no objective measure of "need," this amounts to directing investments where politicians want it to go. As an entrepreneur in India put it: "Indians have learned from painful experience that the state does not work on behalf of the people. More often than not, it works on behalf of itself". So do people in other walks of life. The problem is that this fact is not always recognized and people look to government to right wrongs and fulfill desires to an extent that may not always be possible. The tragic bungling of economic policy by American presidents of both political parties, as well as by officials of the Federal Reserve System, during the Great Depression of the 1930s has sobering implications for those who regard government as a force to save the economy from the imperfections of the marketplace. Markets are indeed imperfect, as everything human is imperfect. But "market failure" is not a magic phrase that automatically justifies government intervention, because the government can also fail-or can even make things worse. Ironically, people are often more clear in their thinking about sports than about policies that have a more serious effect on their lives. When a home run slugger strikes out (as most of them do with some frequency), he is not automatically taken out of the game and a pinch hitter sent in. After all, pinch-hitters can also strike out, and they may not be as likely to hit a home run. Although it was fashionable at one time to represent the Roosevelt administration as having rescued the United States