One of the severest critics of the International Monetary Fund, for example, has been Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz, who favors free trade but attacks the specific rules imposed by the IMF when making loans to poor countries. THE ROLE OF TRADE Americans have not had to pay nearly as much attention to international trade as people in other countries, such as Britain or Holland, whose economies have been more dependent on such trade for centuries. Still, American overseas trade has been growing in recent years, not only absolutely but also as a percentage of the U.S. economy. The ratio of the total international trade of the United States-combining exports and imports to the total output of the American economy was just 8 percent in 1950 but was 26 percent by 2000. Moreover, even in the past, the modest share of international economic transactions in the American economy was nevertheless significant in transforming the United States from a predominantly agricultural nation into a major industrial power. In addition to the large foreign investments that went into creating leading American railroads in the late nineteenth century, as noted in chapter 20, even earlier-in the 1820s and 1830s-foreign purchasers of state bonds financed the digging of canals, the construction of urban public works, and the creation of banks in the United States. Later, in the post-Civil War period, foreign investments financed 15 percent of all the net capital formation in the United States from 1869 to 1875. In short, while international trade and international financial transactions have not played as large or as visible a role in the economy of the United States as in the economies of some other countries, that role has not been negligible. International trade is basically a further extension of the division of functions that marks every modern economy. There was a time, not many centuries ago, when farm families provided themselves with food, shelter, and even clothing made with their own hands. They grew their own fruits and vegetables, raised their own livestock to provide meat, milked their own cows and even made their own cheese. Homespun clothing was common as well on the American frontier. A remarkable degree of economic self-sufficiency is possible, even at the level of the individual family. But that only raises the question: Why did this way of doing things die out? Why did people begin to purchase all these things from other people who specialized in producing particular goods? The answer is of course that specialists could produce better products at lower costs. But, so long as family farms were isolated-that is, could receive specialized products only with high transportation costs added-a self-sufficient way of life made sense. But, once the transportation system was able to bring a wheat farmer numerous consumer products at affordable prices, and to carry his wheat to market at lower cost, it made more sense for the family to spend their time growing more wheat, instead of making homespun clothing, because they could buy their