people in many countries around the world feel more secure in putting their money in American banks or investing in American corporations, rather than relying on their own banks and corporations, then vast sums of money from overseas find their way to the United States. Foreigners invested $12 billion in American businesses in 1980 and this rose over the years until they were investing more than $200 billion annually by 1998. Looked at in terms of things, there is nothing wrong with this. It created more jobs for American workers and created more goods for American consumers, as well as providing income to foreign investors. Looked at in terms of words, however, this was a growing debt to foreigners. The more prosperous and secure the American economy is, the more foreigners are likely to want to send their money to the United States and the higher the annual American balance of payments "deficits" and accumulated international "debt" rises. Hence it is not at all surprising that the long prosperity of the U.S. economy in the 1990s was accompanied by record levels of international deficits and debts. The United States was where the action was and this was where many foreigners wanted their money to be, in order to get in on the action. By the end of 2001, the United States was approximately $1.3 trillion in debt to foreigners, including international institutions. While this was largely a result of American prosperity, this is not to say that things cannot be different for other prosperous countries with different circumstances. Some other prosperous countries invest more abroad than foreign countries invest in them. Switzerland, for example, had a net investment of $300 billion in other countries-which was larger than the Swiss Gross Domestic Product. None of this means that there is something wrong with Switzerland's being a creditor nation. Everything depends on the particular circumstances, opportunities, and constraints facing each country. Vast sums of money come into Switzerland as a major international financial center and, if they cannot find enough good investments within their own small country, it makes perfect sense for them to invest much of this money in other countries. The point here is that neither deficits nor surpluses are inevitable consequences of either prosperity or poverty and neither word, by itself, tells much about the condition of a country's economy. The word "debt" covers very different kinds of transactions, some of which may in fact present problems and some of which do not. Every time you deposit a hundred dollars in a bank, that bank goes a hundred dollars deeper into debt, because it is still your money and they owe it to you. Some people might become alarmed if they were told that the bank in which they keep their life's savings was going deeper and deeper into debt every month. But such worries would be completely uncalled for, if the bank's growing debt means only that many other people are also depositing their pay checks in that