American's annual income was a few hundred dollars more or less. Greed can flourish under very different economic systems. The only real question is: What are its actual consequences under these systems? Where the desire for a fortune can be satisfied by finding ways to lower prices and thereby expand the market for one's output, that is very different from a system where that same desire is more readily fulfilled by imposing political power. In other words, greed is not the product of one particular economic system, but something that all economic, political, and social systems have to cope with in one way or another. People who deplore greed often show a disdain for wealth. Although a disdain for wealth is often admired, only those who already have a certain amount of wealth can afford to disdain any further pursuit of it. Wealth means options and who would want fewer options? More important, from the standpoint of society as a whole, wealth is the only thing that can prevent poverty. Yet many people who claim to be concerned about poverty show remarkably little interest in how wealth is generated or which policies make it harder or easier to create more. One of the special variations on the theme of greed is that some businesses are guilty of "charging all that the traffic will bear." Often such statements are made, not simply as a moral condemnation, but as a causal explanation of prices that are considered to be "too high" for one reason or another. If widgets have been selling for five dollars apiece for some time and suddenly the price rises to eight dollars, then the explanation that is offered may be that the widget manufacturers are now charging all that the traffic will bear. As a causal explanation, this immediately raises a question: Why were they not charging all that the traffic would bear before? Chances are that they were. It is just that the traffic would not bear more than five dollars before and will now bear eight. Therefore what needs to be understood is a causal explanation of what has changed, if widget manufacturers were charging all that the traffic would bear both times. It is not just businesses that charge all that the traffic will bear. The very people who are making this accusation would seldom agree to work for half of their present salaries-or even three-quarters of their present salaries. They are charging what the traffic will bear for their work. And if someone else offers to pay them twice what they are currently earning, it is very unlikely that they will continue working for their current employer, unless that employer matches the offer. Strictly speaking, a business is unlikely to charge literally all that the traffic will bear. If General Motors is selling a certain automobile for $25,000, it could probably still sell some to real devotees of that particular car if they doubled the price to $50,000. But, although the traffic would bear