percent air. Advertising is clearly a market that encompasses technologically very different media, ranging from billboards to brochures, sky-writing, the Internet, newspapers and magazine ads, and commercials on television and radio. Different businesses spend differing proportions of their respective advertising budgets in these various media and change those proportions over time. Any particular advertising firm's "control" of any given percentage of the advertising in its own particular medium-say, billboards-would mean little if Jacking up its prices would lead advertisers to switch their advertising to newspaper ads, radio commercials, or some other medium. Those bringing anti-trust lawsuits generally seek to define the relevant market narrowly, so as to produce high percentages of the market "controlled" by the targeted enterprise. In the famous anti-trust case against Microsoft at the turn of the century, for example, the market was defined as that " Computer operating systems for stand-alone personal computers using microchips of the kind manufactured by Intel. This left out not only the operating systems running Apple computers but also other operating systems such as those produced by Sun Microsystems for multiple computers or the Linux system for stand-alone computers. In this narrowly defined market, Microsoft clearly had a "dominant" share. The anti-trust lawsuit, however, did not accuse Microsoft of jacking up prices unconscionably, in the classic monopoly manner. Rather, Microsoft had added an Internet browser to its Windows operating system free of charge, undermining rival browser producer Netscape. The existence of all the various sources of potential competition from outside the narrowly defined market may well have had something to do with the fact that Microsoft did not raise prices, as it could have gotten away with in the short run-but at the cost of jeopardizing its long-run sales and profits, since other operating systems could have been adaptable as substitutes if their prices were right. In 2003, the city government of Munich in fact switched from using Microsoft Windows in 14,000 computers to using Linux-one of the systems excluded from the definition of the market that Microsoft "controlled." The spread of international free trade means that even a genuine monopoly of a particular product in a particular country may mean little if that same product can be imported from other countries. If there is only one producer of widgets in Brazil, that producer is not a monopoly in any economically meaningful sense if there are a dozen widget manufacturers in neighboring Argentina and hundreds of widget makers in countries around the world. Only if the Brazilian government prevents widgets from being imported does the lone manufacturer in the country become a monopoly in a sense that would allow higher prices to be charged than would be charged in a competitive market. As of 1982, the number of American manufacturers of electric portable typewriters was down to one. But although Smith-Corona now "controlled" 100 percent of the market, that was not enough to keep them out of the red, much less enable them to make monopoly profits. Partly that was because