various forms of socialism. One reason such rhetorical or ideological fashions no longer have the same effectiveness is the actual track record of socialist systems in practice. What also needs to be considered is the track record of market economies in creating widespread cooperation among people through individual incentives. Such cooperation does not even stop at national borders. The Indian software company Wipro creates and maintains computer systems for the American hardware chain Home Depot and, through the magic of the electronic revolution, telephone calls made by British customers to Harrod's department store in London are answered by Indians living near Delhi. Fires in the oil fields of the Middle East have been put out by a company in Texas that specializes in putting out oil fires. More than half the life insurance on people in the Philippines, Malaysia and Singapore is provided by insurance companies in other countries. Britain's hot-selling automobile, the Mini Cooper, is made with engines from Brazil, sheet metal from Germany and various other parts manufactured in Czechoslovakia. In the international diamond center in Antwerp, Hasidic Jews and Jains from India dominate the industry and interact socially as well. As the Wall Street Journal reported: In Antwerp, Jews and Indians have come to be so embedded in each other's lives that many of the Indian dealers speak Hebrew and Yiddish. Most traditional Indian weddings have a special kosher section. After a devastating earthquake in the Indian state of Gujarat in 2001, Jewish diamond traders raised thousands of dollars for humanitarian aid. Is cooperation any less because the incentives behind it are the individual benefits of the participants? Despite the painful facts of history, the idea persists in many places that political decisions are more moral than decisions made through the marketplace. Writers for the San Francisco Chronicle referred to "how amoral the marketplace can be" when explaining why the water supply owned by the city of Stockton could not be entrusted to private enterprise. "Water is too life-sustaining a commodity to go into the marketplace with," they quoted the mayor of Stockton as saying. Yet, every day, life-sustaining food is supplied through private enterprises, as are many life-saving medicines. The net result is that people in most market economies are less likely to suffer from malnutrition than from obesity-just the opposite of what happens in countries where political authorities control food-and most new life-saving medicines are developed in market economies, notably that of the United States. As for privately run water systems, they already exist in Argentina. The Economist reported on the results of privatization: Connections to the water and sewerage networks rose, especially among poorer households: most richer households were already hooked up . . . Before privatization really got under way, in 1995, child mortality rate were falling at much the same pace in municipalities that eventually privatized and those that did not. After 1995, the fall accelerated in privatizing municipalities. . . The fall was concentrated in deaths from infectious and parasitic diseases,