without concrete meanings. If a worker is living, how can he be receiving less than "a living wage" unless he is, as some have said thoughtlessly, "living below subsistence"? No one likes to see fellow human beings living in poverty and squalor, and many are prepared to do something about it, as shown by the vast billions of dollars that donated to a wide range of charities every year, on top of the additional billions spent by governments in an attempt to better the condition of less fortunate people. These socially important activities occur alongside an economy coordinated by prices, but the two things serve different purposes. Attempts to make prices, including the prices of people's labor and talents, be something other than signals to guide resources to their most valued uses, make those prices less effective for their basic purpose, on which the prosperity of the whole society depends. Ultimately, it is economic prosperity that makes it possible for billions of dollars to be devoted to helping the less fortunate. Income "Distribution" Nothing is more straightforward and easy to understand than the fact that some people earn more than others, for a variety of reasons. Some people are simply older than others, for example, and their additional years have given them opportunities to 'acquire more experience, skills, formal education and 1 Sometimes a "living wage" is defined as a wage that will support a family of four- which is to say that one person is to make a decision (to have a family) and another is to pay the price of that decision by paying whatever it takes to support that family. on-the-job-training-all of which allows them to do a given job more efficiently or to. take on more complicated jobs that would be overwhelming for a beginner or for someone with limited experience or training. With the passing years, older individuals may also become more knowledgeable about job opportunities, while increasing numbers of other people become more aware of them and their individual abilities, leading to offers of new jobs or promotions. These and other common sense reasons for income differences among individuals are often lost sight of in abstract discussions of the ambiguous term "income distribution." Although people in the top income brackets and the bottom income brackets-"the rich" and "the poor," as they are often called-may be discussed as if they were different classes of people, often they are the very same people at different stages of their lives. An absolute majority of those Americans who were in the bottom 20 percent in income in 1975 were also in the top 20 percent at some point over the next 16 years. This is not surprising. After 16 years, people usually have had 16 years more experience, perhaps including on-the-job training or formal education. Those in business or the professions have had 16 years in which to build up a clientele. It would be surprising if they were not able to earn more money as a result.