on its complete "control" of the market for its technologically defined product. Even products that have no functional similarity may nevertheless be substitutes in economic terms. If golf courses were to double their fees, many casual golfers might play the game less often or give it up entirely, and in either case seek recreation by taking cruises or by pursuing a hobby like photography or skiing, using money that might otherwise have been used for playing go1f. The fact that these other activities are functionally very different from golf does not matter. In economic terms, when higher prices for A cause people to buy more of B, then A and B are substitutes, whether or not they look alike or operate alike. But laws and government policies seldom look at things this way, especially when defining how much of a given market a given firm "controls." . Domestically, as well as internationally, as the area that can be served by given producers expands, the degree of statistical dominance or "control" by local producers in any given area means less and less. For example, as the number of newspapers published in given American communities declined after the middle of the twentieth century with the rise of television, much , concern was expressed over the growing share of local markets "controlled" by the surviving papers. In many communities, only one local newspaper "survived, making it a monopoly as defined by the share of the market it "controlled." Yet the fact that newspapers published elsewhere became available over wider areas made such statistical "control" economically less and less significant. For example, someone living in the small community of Palo Alto, California, 30 miles south of San Francisco, need not buy a Palo Alto newspaper to find out what movies are playing in town, since that information is readily available from the San Francisco Chronicle, which is widely sold in Palo Alto, with home delivery being easy to arrange. Still less does a Palo Alto resident have to rely on a local paper for national or international news. Technological advances have enabled The New York Times or The Wall Street Journal to be printed in California as readily as in New York, and at the same time, so that these became national newspapers, available in communities large and small across America. USA Today achieved the largest circulation in the country with no local origin at all. The net result was that many local "monopoly" newspapers had difficulties even surviving financially, much less making any extra profits associated with monopoly. Yet anti-trust policies based on market shares continued to impose restrictions on mergers of local newspapers, lest such mergers leave the surviving newspapers with too much "control" of their local market. But the market as defined by the location of the producer had become largely irrelevant economically. An extreme example of how misleading market share statistics can be was the case of a local movie chain that showed 100 percent of all the first-run movies