of words." When it comes to international trade and international transfers of wealth, the things are relatively straightforward, but the words are often slippery and misleading. INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS Theoretically, investments might be expected to flow from where capital is abundant to where it is in short supply, much like water seeking its own level. In a perfect world, wealthy nations would invest much of their capital in poorer nations, where capital is more scarce and would therefore offer a higher rate of return. However, in the highly imperfect world that we live in, that is by no means what usually happens. For example, out of a worldwide total of $9 trillion in international bank loans and deposits in 2001, only about $700 billion went to poor countries-less than one percent. Out of $12 trillion in international investment securities, only about $600 billion went to poor countries, an even smaller fraction of one percent. In short, rich countries tend to invest in other rich countries. There are reasons for this, just as there are reasons why some countries are rich and others poor in the first place. The biggest deterrent to investing in any country is the danger that you will never get your money back. Investors are wary of unstable governments, whose changes of personnel or policies create risks that the conditions under which the investment was made can change-the most drastic change being confiscation or "nationalization." Widespread corruption is another deterrent to investment, as it is to economic activity in general. Countries high up on the international index of corruption, such as Nigeria or Russia, are unlikely to attract international investments on a scale that their natural resources or other economic potential might justify. Conversely, the top countries in terms of having low levels of corruption are all prosperous countries, mostly European or European-offshoot nations plus Japan and Singapore. As noted in Chapter 17, the level of honesty has serious economic implications. Even aside from confiscation and corruption, many poorer countries "do not let capital come and go freely," according to The Economist. Where capital cannot get out easily, it is less likely to go in, in the first place. It is not these countries' poverty, as such, that deters investments. When Hong Kong was a British colony, it began very poor and yet grew to become an industrial powerhouse, at one time having more international trade than a vast country like India. Massive inflows of capital helped develop Hong Kong, which operated under the security of British laws, had low tax rates, and allowed some of the freest flows of capital and trade anywhere in the world. Simple and straightforward as the basic principles of international transfers of wealth may be, words and accounting rules can make them seem more complicated. If Americans buy more Japanese goods than the Japanese buy American goods, then Japan gets American dollars to cover the difference. Since the Japanese are not just going to collect these dollars as souvenirs, they usually turn