neighboring Argentina and hundreds of widget makers in countries around the world. Only if the Brazilian government prevents widgets from being imported does the lone manufacturer in the country become a monopoly in a sense that would allow higher prices to be charged than would be charged in a competitive market. As of 1982, the number of American manufacturers of electric portable typewriters was down to one. But although Smith-Corona now "controlled" 100 percent of the market, that was not enough to keep them out of the red, much less enable them to make monopoly profits. Partly that was because the market for electric portable typewriters was itself declining and because there were now more imported electric portables sold in the United States than American-made electric portables. If it seems silly to arbitrarily define a market and "control" of that market by a given firm's sales of domestically produced products, it was not too silly to form the basis of a landmark U.S. Supreme Court decision in 1963, which defined the market for shoes in terms of "domestic production of non-rubber shoes." By eliminating sneakers, deck shoes, and imported shoes of all kinds, this definition increased the defined market share of the firms being charged with violating the anti-trust laws-who in this case were convicted. In a later anti-trust case, against Microsoft, the market was defined as operating systems for personal computers using Intel-type chips. This definition eliminated not only all Apple computers, but also all network computers and other computers using different technologies-all of which inflated Microsoft's defined share of sales of operating systems, which is to say, its "control" of the market, thereby facilitating its conviction under the anti-trust laws. Thus far, whether discussing widgets, shoes, or computer operating systems, we have been considering markets defined by a given product performing a given function. But often the same function can be performed by technologically different products. For example, typewriters, word processors, and computers can all produce printed letters or manuscripts. In this situation, a complete monopoly of typewriter production by one company would mean virtually nothing, if the consumers were free to have their letters and manuscripts produced by word processors or computers. If the typewriter monopolist raised its prices in disregard of these alternatives, it could find typewriter sales plummeting. On the other hand, it would still be eligible to be convicted of anti-trust law violations, based on its complete "control" of the market for its technologically defined product. Even products that have no functional similarity may nevertheless be substitutes in economic terms. If golf courses were to double their fees, many casual golfers might play the game less often or give it up entirely, and in either case seek recreation by taking cruises or by pursuing a hobby like photography or skiing, using money that might otherwise have been used for playing go1f. The fact that these other activities are functionally very different from golf does not matter. In economic terms, when higher prices for A