music, and thousands of other things all require time, effort, and material resources, the costs of these inputs are the prices that are inherent. These costs do not go away because a law prevents them from being conveyed through prices in the marketplace. Ultimately, to society as a whole, costs are the other things that could have been produced with the same resources. Money flows and price movements are symptoms of that fact-and suppressing these symptoms will not change the underlying fact. PART II: INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE Chapter 5 The Rise and Fall of Businesses Failure is part of the natural cycle of business. Companies are born, companies die, capitalism moves forward. -FORTUNE MAGAZINE Ordinarily, we tend to think of businesses as simply money-making enterprises, but that can be very misleading, in at least two ways. First of all, most businesses go out of business within a very few years after getting started, so it is likely that at least as many businesses are losing money as are making money. More important, from the standpoint of economics, is not what money the business owner hopes to make or whether he succeeds, but how all this affects the use of scarce resources which have alternative uses and therefore how it affects the economic well-being of millions of other people in the society at large. ADJUSTING TO CHANGES The businesses we hear about, in the media and elsewhere, are usually those which have succeeded, and especially those which have succeeded on a grand scale-Microsoft, Sony, General Motors, Lloyd's of London, Credit Suisse. In an earlier era, Americans would have heard about the A & P grocery chain, once the largest retail chain in any field, anywhere in the world. Its 15,000 stores in 1929 were more than any other retailer ever had in America, before or since. The fact that A & P has shrunk to a minute fraction of its former size, and is now virtually unknown, suggests that industry and commerce are not static things, but dynamic processes, in which individual companies and whole industries rise and fall, as a result of relentless competition under changing conditions. Half the companies on the" Fortune 500" list of the largest American businesses in 1980 were no longer on that list a decade later. In just one year between 2001 and 2002-38 businesses dropped off the list, including Enron, which had been the fifth largest company in America the previous year. Nor are such falls from the financial peaks confined to the United States. At one time, the largest bank in the world, Japan's Mizuho, had a $20 billion loss in its fiscal year ending in 2003 and the value of its stock fell by 93 percent. The amount by which its total stock value fell was greater than the Gross Domestic Product of New Zealand. At the heart of all of this is the role of profit-and of losses. Each is equally important from the standpoint of forcing companies and industries to