determine how much milk should go to each of these products? In bidding for cheese, ice cream, and yogurt, consumers are in effect also bidding for the milk that produces them. The money than comes in from the sales of these products is what enables the producers to buy more milk to use to continue producing their respective products. When the demand for cheese goes up, cheese-makers bid away some of the milk that before went into making ice cream or yogurt, in order to increase the output of their own product to meet the rising demand. In other words, the cost of milk rises to everyone when cheese-makers demand more. As other producers then raise the prices of ice cream and yogurt to cover the higher price of the milk that goes into them, consumers are likely to buy less of these other products at these higher prices. How will each producer know just how much milk to buy? Obviously they will buy only as much milk as will repay its higher costs from the higher prices of ice cream and yogurt. If consumers who buy ice cream are not as discouraged by rising prices as consumers who buy yogurt are, then very little of the additional milk that goes into making more cheese will come at the expense of ice cream and more will come at the expense of yogurt. What this all means as a general principle is that the price that one producer is willing to pay for milk (or any other ingredient) is the price that other producers are forced to pay for that same ingredient. Since scarce resources have alternative uses, the value placed on one of these uses by one individual or company becomes a cost that has to be paid by others who want to bid some of these resources away for their own use. From the standpoint of the economy as a whole, this means that resources tend to flow to their most valued uses. This does not mean that one use categorically precludes all other uses. On the contrary, adjustments are incremental. Only that amount of milk which is as valuable to ice cream consumers or consumers of yogurt as it is to cheese purchasers will be used to make ice cream or yogurt. Whether considering consumers of cheese, ice cream, or yogurt, some will be anxious to have a certain amount, less anxious to have additional amounts, and finally-beyond some point-indifferent to having any more, or even unwilling to consume any more after becoming satiated. Prices coordinate the use of resources, so that only that amount is used for one thing which is equal in value to what it is worth to others in other uses. That way, a price-coordinated economy does not flood people with cheese to the point where they are sick of it, while others are crying out in vain for more yogurt or ice cream. Absurd as such a situation would be, it has happened