developed in market economies, notably that of the United States. As for privately run water systems, they already exist in Argentina. The Economist reported on the results of privatization: Connections to the water and sewerage networks rose, especially among poorer households: most richer households were already hooked up . . . Before privatization really got under way, in 1995, child mortality rate were falling at much the same pace in municipalities that eventually privatized and those that did not. After 1995, the fall accelerated in privatizing municipalities. . . The fall was concentrated in deaths from infectious and parasitic diseases, the sort most likely to be affected by water quality and availability. Death from other causes did not decline. In Britain as well, the privatized water supply in England has lower water bills, higher quality drinking water, less leakage, and a sewage disposal system that complies with environmental regulations a higher percentage of the time than those in Scotland, where the government runs the water system. Empirical consequences, however, often matter less than deeply ingrained beliefs and attitudes. Whether in urgent or less urgent matters, many believe that those with political power are better qualified to make moral decisions than are the private parties directly concerned. Such attitudes are international. An entrepreneur in India reported his experience with a government minister there: I had argued that lowering the excise duty would lower consumer prices of shampoos, skin creams, and other toiletries, which in turn would raise their demand. The tax revenues would thus rise, although the tax rate might be lower. Indian women did not need lipsticks and face creams, felt the minister. I replied that all women wanted to look pretty. "A face cream won't do anything for an ugly face. These are luxuries of the rich," he said. I protested that even a village girl used a paste of haldi so that she could look pretty. "No, it's best to leave a face to nature," he said impatiently. "Sir," I pleaded, "how can you decide what she wants? After all, it is her hard earned money." "Yes, and I don't want her wasting it. Let her buy food. I don't want multinational companies getting rich selling face cream to poor Indians." The idea that third party observers can impose morally better decisions often includes the idea that they can define what are "luxuries of the rich," when it is precisely the progress of free market economies which has turned luxuries of the rich into common amenities of people in general, including the poor. Within the twentieth century, automobiles, telephones, refrigerators, television sets, air-conditioners, and personal computers all went from being luxuries of the rich to being common items across the spectrum of Americans and among millions of people in many other market economies. In the nineteenth century, a President of the United States was criticized for spending the government's money to install such a luxury item as a bathtub in the White House. In past centuries, even such