own money or money borrowed from banks and other financial institutions, can acquire mansions and estates, and replace them with middle-class homes and apartment buildings for people of modest incomes. This would of course change the communities in ways the rich might not like, however much others might like to live in the resulting newly developed communities. Wealthy people have often forestalled such transfers of property by getting laws passed to restrict property rights in a variety of ways. For example, various affluent northern California communities have required land to be sold only in lots of one acre or more per house, thereby pricing such land and homes beyond the reach of most people and thus neutralizing the greater aggregate purchasing power of less affluent people. Zoning boards, "open space" laws, historical preservation agencies and other organizations and devices have also been used to severely limit the sale of private property for use in ways not approved by those who wish to keep things the way they are in their communities. The effectiveness of these laws infringing or negating property rights has been shown, not only by the maintenance of existing communities in their existing character, often with negligible population growth despite rising employment in the area, but also by the rapid increase in home prices as more people bid for a relatively unchanged number of homes, leaving those who lose out in this local competition to have to live farther away from their jobs. Using many political and legal devices to prevent the unfettered sale of property rights from transferring land and transforming communities, Palo Alto, California-adjacent to Stanford University-had its home prices increase approximately four-fold in one decade, while its population actually declined in the face of increasing employment around them in Silicon Valley. In San Mateo County, another affluent area in northern California, more than half the land is legally off-limits as "open space," likewise causing home prices to skyrocket and keeping the less affluent from being able to live in the area. One symptom of this is that the number of blacks living in San Mateo County actually declined by 10,000 people between the 1990 census and the 2000 census, even though the overall population of the county increased by 50,000 people. Similar patterns of a declining black population while the total population increased also appeared in nearby San Francisco County and Marin County, both similarly affluent counties with similar restrictive land use policies. By infringing or negating property rights, affluent and wealthy property owners are able to keep out people of average or low incomes and, at the same time, increase the value of their own property by ensuring its growing scarcity relative to increasing employment in the area. Some even acquire a sense of moral superiority in doing so, demonizing the intermediaries who seek to transfer land to new uses. "Developer" is as much of a dirty word among those protecting the status quo in California as "profits" were to India's socialist Prime Minister