does that necessarily mean that a given set of individuals are falling further behind another given set..of individuals? 6. Would a country in transition between a communist economy and a capitalist economy, such as China, tend to have more equality of income or less, compared to an economy that was continuing to be communist or continuing to be capitalist? 7. Although maximum wage laws existed long before minimum wage laws, only the latter are common today. However, in those special cases where there have been maximum wage laws-as under wage and price controls during World War II, for example, what effects would such laws have on the allocation of scarce resources-and on discrimination against minorities and women? 8. Does inequality of income tend to be greater or less in the long run than in the short run? Greater or less than inequalities in consumption? Why do many statistics about "the rich" and "the poor" include people who are neither rich nor poor in reality? 9. A New York Times columnist once used per capita income statistics to judge the economic performance of the administration of President Lyndon Johnson and, in later years, used household income statistics to judge the economic performance of the administration of President Ronald Reagan. Which set of statistics would tend to make the economic progress of the country look better and why? 10. A government official in India said: "I don't want multinational companies getting rich selling face cream to poor Indians." What does that statement imply? PART IV: TIME AND RISK 1. Does it make economic sense for a ninety-year-old man, with no heirs, to plant trees that will take 20 years to grow to maturity and bear fruit? 2. Why do insurance companies buy insurance from a re-insurance company? How does this affect the allocation of scarce resources which have alternative uses? 3. Why may the statistics on the known reserves of a natural resource provide a misleading picture of how much of that resource there is in the ground? 4. "Insurance principles often conflict with political principles." Explain why, with examples. 5. How does commodity speculation differ from gambling? What is the effect of commodity speculation on output? On the allocation of scarce resources which have alternative uses? 6. Why does it pay an insurance company or a commodity speculator to offer a deal in which they guarantee to pay a given sum of money to someone under given circumstances? And why does it pay for that person to accept the offer? 7. Why would a bus company owned or controlled by the government charge fares too low to replace existing buses as they wear out? What if the executives of a privately owned and privately controlled bus company decided to divert part of the money they received from bus fares toward paying themselves higher salaries, instead of setting aside enough money to replace buses as they wear out? What would happen to the value of the stock in their company and how