evolution, or during one period in their own lives, and very ineffective at a later time. Sewell Avery, for example, was for many years a highly successful and widely praised leader of U.S. Gypsum and then of Montgomery Ward. Yet his last years were marked by public criticism and controversy over the way he ran Montgomery Ward, and by a bitter fight for control of the company that he was regarded as mismanaging. When Avery resigned as chief executive officer, the value of Montgomery Ward's stock rose immediately. Under his leadership, Montgomery Ward had put aside so many millions of dollars as a cushion against an economic downturn that Forbes magazine called it "a bank with a store front." Meanwhile, rivals like Sears were using their money to expand into new markets. When an industry or a sector of the economy is undergoing rapid change through new ways of doing business, sometimes the leaders of the past find it hardest to break the mold of their previous experience. For example, when the fast food revolution burst forth in the 1950s, existing leaders in restaurant franchises such as Howard Johnson were very unsuccessful in trying to compete with upstarts like McDonald's. Even when Howard Johnson set up imitations of the new fast food restaurants under the name Howard Johnson Jr., these imitations were unable to compete successfully, because they carried over into the fast food business approaches and practices that had been successful in conventional restaurants, but which slowed down operations too much to be successful in the new fast food sector, where rapid turnover with inexpensive food was the key to profits. Selecting managers can be as chancy as any other aspects of a business. Only by trial and error did the new McDonald's franchise chain discover back in the 1950s what kinds of people were most successful at running their restaurants. The first few franchisees were people with business experience who did very poorly. The first two really successful McDonald's franchisees-who were very successful-were a working class married couple who drained their life savings in order to go into business for themselves. They were so financially strained at the beginning that they even had trouble coming up with the $100 needed to put into the cash register on their opening day, so as to be able to make change. But they ended up millionaires. Other working class people who put everything they owned on the line to open a McDonald's restaurant also succeeded on a grand scale, even when they had no experience in running a restaurant or managing a business. When McDonald's set up its own company-owned restaurants, they did not succeed nearly as well as restaurants owned by people whose own life's savings were at stake. But there was no way to know this in advance. Neither individuals nor companies are successful forever. Death alone guarantees turnover in management. An A & P executive during its declining years summarized its problems by saying: "The simple fact is