Yemen, and Angola are all below twenty, while the median ages in Germany and Italy is about forty. Such huge age gaps overstate the real significance of some international differences in income. Just as nature provides-free of charge-the heat required to grow pineapples or bananas in tropical countries, while other countries would run up huge heating bills growing these same fruits in greenhouses, so nature provides free for the young many things that can be very costly to provide for older people. Enormously expensive medications and treatments for dealing with the many physical problems that come with aging are all counted in statistics on a country's output, but fewer such things are necessary in a country with a younger population. Thus statistics on real income per capita overstate the difference in economic well-being between older Western nations and younger non-Western nations. If it were feasible to remove from national statistics all the additional wheelchairs, nursing homes, pacemakers, and medications ranging from Geritol to Viagra-all of which are ways of providing for an older population things which nature provides free to the young-then international comparisons of real income would more accurately reflect actual levels of economic well-being. After all, an elderly person in a wheelchair would gladly change places with a young person who does not need a wheelchair, and so cannot be said to be economically better off than the younger person by the amount that the wheelchair cost-even though that is what gross international statistical comparisons would imply. One of the usual ways of making international comparison is to compare the total money value of outputs in one country versus another. However, this gets us into other complications created by official exchange rates between their respective currencies, which may or may not reflect the actual purchasing power of those currencies. Governments may set their official exchange rates anywhere they want, but that does not mean that the actual purchasing power of the money will be whatever they say it is. Country A may have more output per capita than Country B if we measure by official exchange rates, while it may be just the reverse if we measure by the purchasing power of the money. Surely we would say that Country B has the larger total value of output if it could purchase everything produced in country A and still have something left over. As in other cases, the problem is not with understanding the basic economics involved. The problem is with confusion spread by politicians, the media and others trying to prove some point with statistics. For example, some have claimed that Japan has had a higher per capita income than the . United States, using statistics based on official exchange rates of the dollar and the yen. But, in fact, the United States has significantly higher per capita income than Japan when measured by the purchasing power of the two countries' national outputs. The average American's annual income could buy everything the average Japanese annual income buys