maintain high quality when everything will sell anyway during a shortage. Some of the most painful examples of quality deterioration have occurred in countries where there are price controls on medical care. At artificially low prices, more people go to doctors' offices with minor ailments that they might otherwise ignore, or treat with over-the-counter medications, perhaps with a pharmacist's advice. Alternatively, they might make a quick phone call to their doctor for advice, instead of coming to his office for a visit that would take up more of their time and his. But all this changes when price controls reduce the cost of visits to the doctor's office, and especially when these visits are paid for by the government and are therefore free to the patient. In short, more people make more claims on doctors' time under price control, leaving less time for other people with more serious, or even urgent, medical problems. Thus, under Britain's government-controlled medical system, a twelve-year-old girl was given a breast implant while 10,000 people waited 15 months or more for surgery, including a woman with cancer who had her operation postponed so many times that the malignancy eventually became inoperable. The priorities which prices automatically cause individuals to consider are among the first casualties of price controls. In countries around the world, the amount of time that physicians spend per patient visit has been shorter under government-controlled medical care, compared to the time spent by physicians where prices are not controlled. Such other common features of price controls as waiting lines and black markets have also been found in medical care. In China and Japan, black markets have taken the form of bribes to doctors to get expedited treatment. In short, whether the product or service has been housing, apples, or medical care, quality deterioration under price control has been common in the most disparate settings. THE POLITICS OF PRICE CONTROLS Simple as basic economic principles may be, their ramifications can be quite complex, as we have seen with the various effects of rent control laws and agricultural price support laws. However, even this basic level of economics is seldom understood by the public, which often demands political "solutions" that turn out to make matters worse. Nor is this a new phenomenon of modern times in democratic countries. In 1628, a local harvest shortfall in Italy led to reduced supplies of food in that area, which in turn led to a public reaction similar to what has been seen in many other times and places: People implored the magistrates to take measures, measures which the crowd considers simple, just and certain to bring out the hidden, walled-up, buried grain, and to bring back plenty. The magistrates did do something: fixed the maximum price for various foodstuffs, threatened to punish those who refused to sell, and other edicts of the sort. Since such measures, however vigorous, do not have the virtue of diminishing the need for food, growing crops out of season, or attracting supplies