over a lifetime is not the same as the degree of income inequality in any given year. A study in New Zealand found that the degree of income inequality over a working lifetime was less than the degree of inequality in any given year during those lifetimes. Much discussion of "the rich" and "the poor"-or of the top or bottom 10 or 20 percent-fail to say just what kinds of incomes qualify to be in these categories. As of 2001, a household income of $84,000 was enough to put those who earned it in the top 20 percent of Americans. Even to make the top 5 percent required a household income of just over $150,000--that is, about $75,000 apiece for a working couple. That is a nice income, but rising to that level after working for decades is hardly a sign of being rich. Even among the truly rich, there is turnover. When Forbes magazine ran its first list of the 400 richest Americans in 1982, that list included 14 Rockefellers, 23 du Ponts and 11 Hunts. Twenty years later, the list included 3 Rockefellers, one Hunt and no du Ponts. Incidentally, the nation's 400 richest people lost a total of $80 billion in net worth in one year, which may be one reason for such turnover, in addition to new people like Bill Gates coming along. Describing people in certain income brackets as "rich" is false for a more fundamental reason: Income and wealth are different things. No matter how much income passes through your hands in a given year, your wealth depends on how much you have accumulated over the years. If you receive a million dollars in a year and spend a million and a half, you are not getting rich. But many frugal people on modest incomes have been found, after their deaths, to have left surprisingly large amounts of wealth to their heirs. Although there is much talk about "income distribution," most income is of course not distributed at all, in the sense in which newspapers or Social Security checks are distributed from some central place. Most income is distributed only in the figurative statistical sense in which there is a distribution of heights in a population-some people being 5 foot 4 inches tall, others 6 foot 2 inches, etc.-but none of these heights was sent out from some central location. Yet it is all too common to read journalists and others discussing how "society" distributes its income, rather than saying in plain English that some people make more money than others. . More is involved than a misleading metaphor. Often the very units In which income differences are discussed are as misleading as the metaphor. Family income or household income are not like individual income. An individual always means the same thing-one person-but the sizes of families and households differ substantially from one time period to another, from one racial or ethnic group to another, and from one income bracket to another. For example,