other parts of the national stock of wealth. Wartime government posters said: Use it up, Wear it out, Make it do, Or do without. After the war was over, there was a tremendous increase in the production of cars, refrigerators, housing, and other parts of the nation's accumulated stock of wealth which had been allowed to wear down or wear out while production was being devoted to urgent wartime purposes. Both the fixed assets of businesses and the durable equipment of consumers grew much faster between 1947 and 1973 than they had during earlier or later decades of the twentieth century, as the nation's stock of durable assets that had been depleted during the war was replenished. Just as national income does not refer to money or other paper assets, so national wealth does not consist of these pieces of paper either, but of the real goods and services that such things can buy. Otherwise, any country could get rich immediately just by printing more money. Sometimes national output or national wealth is added up by using the money prices of the moment, but most serious long-run studies measure output and wealth in real terms, taking into account price changes over time. This is necessarily an inexact process because the prices of different things change differently over time. In the century between 1900 and 2000, the real cost of electricity, eggs, bicycles, and clothing all declined in the United States, while the real cost of bread, beer, potatoes, and cigarettes all rose. The Composition of Output Prices are not the only things that change over time. The real goods and services which make up the national output also change. The cars of 1950 are not the same as the cars of the year 2000. The older cars did not have air-conditioning, seat belts, anti-lock brakes, or many other features that have been added over the years. So when we try to measure how much the production of automobiles has increased in real terms, a mere count of how many such vehicles there were in both time periods misses a huge qualitative difference in what we are defining as being the same thing cars. This is true of housing as well. The average house at the end of the twentieth century was much larger, had more bathrooms, and was far more " likely to have air conditioning and other amenities than houses that existed in the middle of that century. Merely counting how many houses there were at both times does not tell us how much the production of housing had increased. Just between 1983 and 2000, the median square feet in a new single-family house in the United States increased from 1,585 to 2,076. While these are problems which can be left for professional economists and statisticians to try to wrestle with, it is important for others to at least be aware of these problems, so as not to be misled by politicians or media pundits who throw statistics around