out, there have also been, conversely, unjustifiably optimistic statements that some poor country has so many billions of dollars' worth of "natural wealth" in the form of iron ore or bauxite deposits or some other natural resource. Such statements mean very little without considering how much it would cost to extract and process those resources. A country with $10 billion worth of some natural resource might as well not have it if the costs of exploration, extraction and processing add up to $11 billion. Only if the demand for that resource rises enough in the future to raise its price above the costs of using it, or if future technological improvements lower the costs of producing it, would this resource become economically relevant. Statistics on the physical totals of a natural resource may sometimes understate how much wealth that represents, if the costs of extraction and processing are especially low. It has been estimated that, in some parts of Russia, petroleum can be extracted at a cost of less than two dollars a barrel-less than one-tenth its selling price in the world market. In purely physical terms, Russia has larger petroleum reserves than any country outside the Middle East. But it is even better off in economic terms. Chapter 13 Risks and Insurance Risks inherent in economic activities can be dealt with in a wide variety of ways. In addition to the commodity speculation and inventory management discussed in the previous chapter, other ways of dealing with risk include stocks, bonds, and insurance. There are also other economic activities analogous to stocks, bonds, and insurance which deal with risks in ways that are legally different, though similar economically. Conversely, there are sources of income which seem similar to ordinary wages, salaries and profits but which are in fact quite different. These include capital gains. There are also systems that call themselves "social insurance" which are not insurance at all. Here, as in so many other places, we cannot go by words but must examine the underlying reality. Whenever a home, a business, or any other asset increases in value over time, that increase is called a "capital gain." While it is another form of income, it differs from wages and salaries in not being paid right after it is earned, but usually only after an interval of some years. A thirty-year bond, for example, can be cashed in only after thirty years. If you never sell your home, then whatever increase in value it has will be called an "unrealized capital gain." The same is true for someone who opens a grocery store that grows more valuable as its location becomes known throughout the neighborhood, and as it develops a set of customers who get into the habit of shopping at that particular store. Perhaps after the owner dies, his widow or children may decide to sell the store-and only then will the capital gain be realized. Sometimes a capital gain comes from a purely financial transaction, where you simply