on incentives: But what justifies confiscating the larger part-sometimes 90-95 percent-of enterprises' profits, as is being done in many sectors of the economy today? What political or economic right-ultimately what human right-do ministries have to do that? Once again we are taking away from those who work well in order to keep afloat those who do nothing. How can we possibly talk about independence, initiative, rewards for efficiency, quality, and technical progress? Of course, the country's leaders could continue to talk about such things, but destroying the incentives which exist under property rights meant that there was a reduced chance of achieving these goals. Because of an absence of property rights, those who ran enterprises that made profits "can't buy or build anything with the money they have" which represent "just figures in a bank account with no real value whatever without permission from above" to use that money. In other words, success does not lead to expansions of successful enterprises or contraction of unsuccessful ones, as it does in a market economy. While government officials in the United States cannot arbitrarily confiscate profits as directly as Soviet officials could, American legislators can pass laws imposing costs on private enterprises, thereby causing profits to be reduced-and incentives to be changed. In California, for example, the state legislature passed a law requiring landlords to give elderly tenants a year's notice before evicting them and to pay up to $3,000 to each tenant evicted, to help with relocation costs. This legislation was intended to deal with the danger of mass evictions by landlords who were losing money under rent control in places like San Francisco, and who wanted to stop renting. Since this legislation went into effect on January 2, 2000, owners of cheap hotels in San Francisco evicted many elderly tenants during December 1999, in order to escape these impending costs of shutting down their hotels. Here again, the goals of the law were very different from the consequences which, in this case, caused many poor and elderly single men to be thrown out on the streets during the Christmas season, in a city with a severe housing shortage and the highest rents in the country. Far more anger and indignation were directed at the hotel owners than at those who had passed such legislation. Yet, in the absence of attempts to confiscate profits through both rent control laws and laws on evictions, the ordinary incentives of property rights and a free market would have caused the hotel owners to want to keep all the tenants they could. Social Order Order includes more than laws and the government apparatus that administers laws. It also includes the honesty, reliability and cooperativeness of the people themselves. Honesty and reliability can vary greatly between one country and another. As a knowledgeable observer put it: "While it is unimaginable to do business in China without paying bribes, to offer one in Japan is the greatest faux pas." Honesty and reliability can also vary widely among