forms of dishonesty promoted by rent control laws. Shrewd and unscrupulous landlords have made virtually a science out of milking a rent-controlled building by neglecting maintenance and repairs, defaulting on mortgage payments, falling behind in the payment of taxes, and then finally letting the building become the property of the city, while they move on to repeat the same destructive process with other rent-controlled buildings. Without rent control, the incentives facing landlords are directly the opposite-that is, to maintain the quality of the property, in order to attract tenants, and to safeguard it against fire and other sources of dangers to the survival of the building. In short, complaints against landlords' behavior by rent control advocates can be valid, even though few of these advocates see any connection between rent control and a declining moral quality in people who become landlords. When honest landlords stand to lose money under rent control, while dishonest landlords can still make a profit, it is virtually inevitable that the property will pass from the former to the latter. Rent control laws are just one of a number of severe restrictions which can make honest behavior too costly for many people, and which therefore promote widespread dishonesty. Bureaucratic delays in many countries such as India virtually ensure that bribery will become widespread when the costs of these delays become greater than the costs of the bribes. The Prohibition era in the United States during the 1920s made widespread violation of the bans against alcoholic beverages so common as to become almost respectable among the general public, quite aside from the boost that it gave to organized crime. It is common in Third World countries for much-sometimes most--economic activity to take place "off the books," which is to say illegally, because oppressive levels of bureaucracy and red tape make legal operation too costly for most people to afford. When laws and policies make honesty increasingly costly, then government is, in effect, promoting dishonesty. Such dishonesty can extend then beyond the particular laws and policies in question to a more general habit of disobeying laws, to the detriment of the whole economy and society. EXTERNAL COSTS AND BENEFITS Economic decisions made through the marketplace are not always better than decisions that governments can make. Much depends on whether those market transactions accurately reflect both the costs and the benefits which result. Under some conditions, they do not. When someone buys a table or a tractor, the question as to whether it is worth what it cost is answered by the actions of the purchaser who made the decision to buy it. However, when an electric utility company buys coal to burn to generate electricity, a significant part of the cost of the electricity generating process is paid by people who breathe the smoke that results from the burning of the coal and whose homes and cars are dirtied by the soot. Cleaning, repainting and medical costs paid by these people are not taken into account in the