the losses suffered by the countries themselves after such groups have left have been a major factor in the continuing poverty of some Third World nations. For example, whole sectors of the Ugandan economy collapsed after 50,000 Indians and Pakistanis were forced to leave the country in the 1970s. Indigenous human capital may also leave because the political and institutional climate offers far less opportunity for individuals to advance economically than the opportunities available in some foreign countries. India, for all its poverty, has for centuries been an exporter of entrepreneurs, who have created thriving enterprises from the Caribbean to the South Pacific and from Russia to Africa. Today, computer engineers from India are a major force in America's Silicon Valley and Indians are 10 percent of all anesthesiologists in the United States. Despite a vision of helpless Third World countries, whose economic rise is possible only through transfers of foreign aid and foreign know-how from more prosperous and more industrially advanced countries, many Third World nations have within themselves both physical assets and human assets far exceeding any that they are likely to receive from other countries. This is not to say that it would be easy politically to reform the policies and institutions which hold back internal economic development in the Third World. What is easy politically is to accept foreign aid and use it to help keep existing political leaders in power, whether or not the foreign aid has any significant effect on the economic condition of the country as a whole. Enormous amounts of wealth created in "underground" economies in the Third World provide evidence of the entrepreneur ship already present in these countries, even if the legal systems in these countries impede this wealth from being mobilized for larger corporate development, such as occurs in Western countries or in some Asian nations such as Japan. Often there have been entrepreneurial minorities in Third World countries who have been responsible for much, if not most, of the development of modern economic sectors in those countries. The Chinese have played this role in Malaysia, Indonesia and other Southeast Asian nations, Indians and Pakistanis did the same in East Africa and the Lebanese in West Africa. In past eras, Armenians played this role in parts of the Russian and Ottoman Empires, and the Jews in much of Eastern Europe. Without exception, the success of these minorities has been resented and this resentment has in many cases led politically to their persecution or expulsion. In addition to the tragedies inflicted on these minorities, the economic impact of their departures has been a loss to the countries in which they have not been allowed to contribute what they could. Very few Third World countries have been devoid of the human capital-indigenous or otherwise-needed for economic development. West Africa, for example, became the world's leading grower and exporter of cocoa as a result of the planting and growing of this crop by innumerable African small farmers, even though cocoa was not