according to how many people they supervise and how large a budget they administer. These different situations create opposite incentives-to get as much work done with as few people and resources as possible in private industry and with as many people and resources as available in government. This is one reason why it often costs much less for private companies to perform the same tasks as a government agency performs. The public pays the costs of the government's inefficiencies, whether as consumers or as taxpayers. MINIMUM WAGE LAWS Just as we can better understand the economic role of prices in general when we see what happens when prices are not allowed to function, so we can better understand the economic role of workers' pay by seeing what happens when that pay is not allowed to vary with supply and demand. Historically, authorities set maximum wage levels centuries before they set minimum wage levels. Today, however, only the latter are widespread. Minimum wage laws make it illegal to pay less than the government specified price for labor. By the simplest and most basic economics, a price artificially raised tends to cause more to be supplied and less to be demanded than when prices are left to be determined by supply and demand in a free t market. The result is a surplus, whether the price that is set artificially high is , that of farm produce or labor. Minimum wage laws are almost always discussed politically in terms of the benefits they supposedly confer on workers receiving those wages. Unfortunately, the real minimum wage is always zero, regardless of the laws, and that is the wage that many workers receive in the wake of the creation or escalation of a government-mandated minimum Wage, because they lose their jobs. Making it illegal to pay less than a given amount does not make a worker's productivity worth that amount-and, if it is not, that worker is unlikely to be employed. Unemployment Because the government does not hire surplus labor the way it buys surplus agricultural output, a labor surplus takes the form of unemployment, which tends to be higher under minimum wage laws than in a free market. Because people differ in many ways, those who are unemployed are not likely to be a random sample of the labor force. In country after country around the world, those whose employment prospects are reduced most by minimum wage laws are those who are younger, less experienced, and less skilled. This pattern has been found in New Zealand, France, Canada, the Netherlands, and the United States, for example. As in other cases, a "surplus" is a price phenomenon, just as "shortages" are. Unemployed workers are not surplus in the sense of being useless or in the sense that there is no work around that needs doing. Most of these workers are perfectly capable of producing goods and services, even if not to the same extent as more skilled workers. The unemployed are made idle by