9. When fighting a war leads to a diversion of a substantial amount of resources from civilian to military purposes, most people would be more concerned to see that the poor could still get bread than that the rich could still get caviar. Why then not put price controls on bread but not on caviar? 10. Nobel Prize economist F. A. Hayek said: "We shall not grow wiser before we learn that much that we have done was very foolish." What do you consider to be the three most foolish policies discussed in this book? Would you have considered those policies foolish before reading Basic Economics? SOURCES It is neither possible nor necessary to document the source of every statement made in this book. However, there are some key facts which some readers may want to check out or to explore further. Rather than clutter the text with footnotes, in a book intended for the general public, the citations are listed here in an informal way that should nevertheless make it possible to find the original sources. CHAPTER 1: WHAT IS ECONOMICS? The article about middle-class Americans began on the front page of Section 3 of the New York Times of August 1, 1999 and was written by Louis Uchitelle. The statement that Marxist economist Oskar Lange did not differ fundamentally from Milton Friedman on certain basic propositions and procedures can be verified by reading Oskar Lange, "The Scope and Method of Economics," in the Review of Economic Studies (1945-1946), pages 19-32, and comparing that with Milton Friedman's essay "The Methodology of Positive Economics" in his book Essays in Positive Economics. CHAPTER 2: THE ROLE OF PRICES The quoted statistics and analysis about the Soviet economy are from a book titled The Turning Point: Revitalizing the Soviet Economy by two Soviet economists, Nikolai Shmelev and Vladimir Popov, especially pages 128, 130-131, 141, 181. The quote from Friedrich Engels is from his preface to the first German edition of The Poverty of Philosophy by Karl Marx, where Marx himself makes similar comments in the text, though not in as lucid language as that used by Engels. Information on Ghana and the Ivory Coast is from a book by W. L. Alpine and James Picket,Agriculture, Liberalization and Economic Growth in Ghana and Cote D'Ivoire:1968-1990, published in Paris in 1996 by the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development. South Korea's surpassing of India, after starting from a similar economic level, was mentioned on page 222 of The Commanding Heights by Daniel Yergin and Joseph Stanislaw. India's relaxation of government controls over its economy was reported in the distinguished British magazine, The Economist, June 2, 2001, page 13. The use of food and electricity in an Israeli kibbutz, before and after prices were charged for them, is discussed on pages 332 and 333 of Heaven on Earth: the Rise and Fall of Socialism by Joshua Muracchik, published in 2002 by Encounter Books. The relationship between housing prices and population changes in upstate New York