of the Survey of Current Business. The estimate that only one person in ten works in a legally recognized enterprise in a typical African nation is from an article titled "Poverty and Property Rights," on pages 20 to 22 of the March 31,2001 issue of The Economist. The estimate of the number of illegally built homes in Egypt is from page 20 of The Mystery of Capital by Hernando de Soto and the value of the illegally produced wealth in Peru is from pages 33 and 34. Robert Mundell's comment on the era of the gold standard is from his lecture at the Central Bank of Uruguay in May 20002 and. P. Morgan's comment on gold was quoted on page 41 of The New York Times Century of Business. The varying exchange rates between the dollar and the euro have been discussed in many places, including two news stories beginning on page C1 of the New York Times of May 20,2003. The quotation about the effect of Britain's pound sterling "weakening" against the Euro is from page 52 of the May 19, 2003 issue of Businessweek magazine, under the title "Beware the Super Euro." The effect of the "strong" Norwegian krona on purchases of groceries from Sweden was reported on page 42 of the August 31, 2002 issue of The Economist, under the title "Have Car-Boot, Will Trave1." Data on Americans' overseas investments are from page 6 of a supplement titled "Globalisation and Its Critics" in The Economist of September 29,2001. The fact that American multinational corporations employ more than 30 million people around the world is from page 112 of the December 2002 issue of the U.S. Department of Commerce publication, Survey of Current Business. Multinational companies' payment of double the wages received locally in poor countries is shown on page 13 of the same section. CHAPTER 21: AN OVERVIEW The public opinion poll on protectionism and free trade was mentioned on page 56 of The Race to the Top: The Real Story of Globalization, written by Tomas Larsson and published by the Cato Institute. The estimated costs of protectionism in the European Union countries are from page 62 of the same book. The statistics on the number of steel workers and the number of workers in steel-using industries is from page 229 of Saving Capitalism from the Capitalism by Rajan and Zingales. The respective costs of producing steel in the United States, Germany, Japan, Brazil, and South Korea were published on page 61 of The Economist magazine of March 9, 2000. Professor Jagdish Bhagwati's experience debating at Cornell is from pages 8 and 9 of his book Free Trade Today, published in 2002 by the Princeton University Press. Joseph Stiglitz's criticisms of the International Monetary Fund are found, among other places, in his book Globalization and Its Discontents. Data on the increasing role of international trade in the American economy is from page 76 of Saving Capitalism from the Capitalists by Rajan and Zingales. Information on the role