loosely to describe an employee's contribution to a company's earnings. The problem is that this word is also defined in other ways and sometimes the implication is left that each worker has a certain productivity that is inherent in that worker, rather than being dependent on surrounding circumstances as well. A worker using the latest modern equipment can produce more output than the very same worker employed in another firm whose equipment is not quite as up-to-date or whose management does not have things organized as well. For example, Japanese-owned cotton mills in China during the 1930s paid higher wages than Chinese-owned cotton mills there, but the Japanese-run mills had lower labor costs per unit of output because they had higher output per worker. This was not due to different equipment - they both used the same machines-but to more efficient management brought over from Japan. Similarly, in the early twenty-first century, an international consulting firm found that American-owned manufacturing enterprises in Britain had far higher productivity than British-owned manufacturing enterprises. The British magazine The Economist said that "British industrial companies have under performed their American counterparts badly," that when it comes to "economy in the use of time and materials," fewer than 40 percent of British manufacturers "have paid any attention to this" and that "Britain's top engineering graduates prefer to work for foreign-owned companies." In short, lower productivity in British-owned companies reflects management practices, even when productivity is measured in terms of labor. In general, the productivity of any input in the production process depends on the quantity and quality of other inputs, as well as its own. The same principle applies outside what we normally think of as economic activities. In baseball, a slugger gets more chances to hit home runs if he is batting ahead of another slugger. But, if the batter hitting after him is not much of a home run threat, pitchers are more likely to walk the slugger in a tight situation, so that he will get fewer opportunities to hit home runs over the course of a season. During Ted William's career, for example, he had one of the highest percentages of home runs-in proportion to his times at bat-in the history of baseball. Yet he had only one season in which he hit as many as 40 homers, because he was walked as often as 162 times a season-averaging more than one walk per game during the era of the 154-game season. By contrast, when Roger Maris hit 61 home runs in 1961, breaking the record at that time, he was walked less than a hundred times because Mickey Mantle was batting right after him, and Mantle hit 54 home runs that season. There was no percentage in walking Maris to pitch to Mantle with one more man on base. Maris' productivity as a home-run hitter was greater because he batted with Mickey Mantle in the on-deck circle. In virtually all jobs, the quality of the equipment, management and other workers