news in the media was not true of the economy as a whole. The fallacy of composition threatens confusion in many aspects of the study of the national economy, because what is true of an individual or even an industry is not necessarily true for the economy. For example, any given individual who doubles the amount of money he or she has will be richer, but a nation cannot be made richer by printing twice as much money. That is because the price level will rise in the economy as a whole if there is twice as much money in circulation and the same amount of goods. Another example of the fallacy of composition would be adding up all individual investments to get the total investments of the country. When individuals buy government bonds, that is an investment for those individuals. But, for the country as a whole, there are no more investment goods-office buildings, factories, hydroelectric dams, etc.-than if these bonds had never been purchased. What these individuals have purchased is a right to sums of money to be collected from future taxpayers. These individuals' additional assets are the taxpayers' additional liabilities, which cancel out for the country as a whole. The fallacy of composition is not peculiar to economics. In a sports stadium, any given individual can see the game better by standing up but, If everybody stands up, everybody will not see better. In a burning building, any given individual can get out faster by running than by walking. But, if everybody runs, the stampede is likely to create bottlenecks at doors, preventing escapes by people struggling against one another to get out, causing some of these people to lose their lives needlessly in the fire. That is why there are fire drills, so that people will get in the habit of leaving in an emergency in an orderly way, so that more lives can be saved. What is at the heart of the fallacy of composition is that it ignores interactions among individuals, which can prevent what is true for one of them from being true of them all. Among the common economic examples of the fallacy of composition are attempts to "save jobs" in some industry threatened with higher unemployment for one reason or another. Any given firm or industry can always be rescued by a sufficiently large government intervention, whether in the form of subsidies, purchases of the firm's or industry's products by government agencies, or by other such means. The interaction that is ignored by those advocating such policies is that everything the government spends is taken from somebody else. The 10,000 jobs saved in the widget industry may be at the expense of 15,000 jobs lost elsewhere in the economy by the government's taxing away the resources needed to keep those other people employed. We need only imagine what would have happened if the government had decided to "save jobs" in the typewriter industry when personal computers first appeared on the scene