on evictions, the ordinary incentives of property rights and a free market would have caused the hotel owners to want to keep all the tenants they could. Social Order Order includes more than laws and the government apparatus that administers laws. It also includes the honesty, reliability and cooperativeness of the people themselves. Honesty and reliability can vary greatly between one country and another. As a knowledgeable observer put it: "While it is unimaginable to do business in China without paying bribes, to offer one in Japan is the greatest faux pas." Honesty and reliability can also vary widely among particular groups within a given country, and that also has economic repercussions. Some insular groups rely upon their own internal social controls for doing business with fellow group members whom they can trust. One such group are the Marwaris of India, whose business networks were established in the nineteenth century and extended beyond India to China and Central Asia, and who "transacted vast sums merely on the merchant's word." But "doing business among strangers," as The Economist puts it, "is not easy" in India. Yet that is an essential part of a successful modern mass economy, which requires cooperation among far more people than can possibly know each other personally. As for the general level of reliability among strangers in India, The Economist reported: If you withdraw 10,000 rupees from a bank, it will probably come in a brick of 100-rupee notes, held together by industrial strength staples that you must struggle to prise open. They are there to prevent someone from surreptitiously removing a few notes. On trains, announcements may advise you to crush your empty mineral-water bottles lest someone refill them with tap water and sell them as new. . . . Any sort of business that requires confidence in the judicial system is best left alone. Where neither the honesty of the general population nor the integrity of the legal system can be relied upon, economic activities are inhibited. At the same time, groups whose members can rely on each other, such as the Marwaris, have a great advantage in competition with others, in being able to secure mutual cooperation in economic activities that extend over distances and time-activities that would be far more risky for others in such societies and still more so for strangers. Like the Marwaris, Hasidic Jews in New York's jewelry business often give consignments of jewels to one another and share the sales proceeds on the basis of verbal agreements among themselves. The extreme social isolation of the Hasidic community from the larger society, and even from other Jews, makes it very costly for anyone who grows up in that community to disgrace his family and lose his own standing, as well as his own economic and social relationships, by cheating on an agreement with a fellow Hasidim. It is much the same story halfway around the world, where the overseas Chinese minority in various southeast Asian countries make verbal agreements among