but less. Prices also convey this. When automobiles began to displace horses and buggies in the early twentieth century, the demand for saddles, horseshoes, carriages and other such paraphernalia declined. As the manufacturers of such products faced losses instead of profits, many began to abandon their businesses or were shut down by bankruptcy. In a sense, it is unfair when some people are unable to earn as much as others with similar skills, diligence, and other virtues. Yet this unfairness to particular individuals is what makes the economy as a whole operate more efficiently for the benefit of vastly larger numbers of others. (1) The same thing can happen when the food arrives by land. See "Death by Bureaucracy," on page 40 of the December 8, 2001 issue of The Economist, for examples of Afghan refugees dying of starvation while waiting for paperwork to be completed by aid workers. Chapter 3 Price Controls Facts are stubborn things, and whatever may be our wishes, our inclinations, or the dictates of our passions, they cannot alter the state of facts and evidence. -JOHN ADAMS Just as nothing makes us appreciate the value of water like a drought, nothing shows more vividly the role of price fluctuations in a free market than the absence of such price fluctuations when the market is controlled. What happens when prices are not allowed to fluctuate freely according to supply and demand, but instead are set by law, as under various kinds of price-control laws? Price controls have existed, at one time or another, in countries around the world, over a period of centuries-in fact, for thousands of years-and have applied to everything from food to housing to medical services. Typically, price controls are imposed in order to keep prices from rising to the levels that they would reach in response to supply and demand. The political rationales for such laws have varied from place to place and from time to time, but there is seldom a lack of rationales whenever it becomes politically expedient to hold down someone's prices in the interests of someone else whose political support seems more important. However, in addition to laws putting a "ceiling" on how high prices will be allowed to rise, there are also laws establishing "floor" prices, which limit how far prices will be allowed to fall. Many countries have set limits to how low certain agricultural prices will be allowed to fall, sometimes with the government being legally obligated to buy up the farmer's output whenever free market prices go below the specified levels. Equally widespread are minimum wage laws, which set a limit to how Iowa worker's wage rate may be. Here the government seldom offers to buy up the surplus labor which the free market does not employ, though it usually offers unemployment compensation, covering some proportion of the wages that might otherwise have been earned. To understand the effects of price control, it is necessary to understand how prices rise and fall in a