has remained part of the tradition of free-market economists throughout the twentieth century as well, with Milton Friedman's views being very similar to those of Adam Smith on this point. Free market competition has often been opposed by the business community, from Adam Smith's time to our own. It was business interests which promoted the pervasive policies of government intervention known as "mercantilism" in the centuries before Smith and others made the case for ending such interventions and establishing free markets. Then, after free market principles had gained wider acceptance in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, business leaders were of course prepared to invoke those principles for political reasons, whenever it suited their particular purposes of the moment. But business leaders and organizations have proven equally willing to seek government intervention to keep out foreign competition, bail out failing corporations and banks, and receive billions of dollars in agricultural subsidies, ostensibly for the sake of saving family farms, but in reality going disproportionately to large agricultural corporations. When President Richard Nixon imposed the first peacetime wage and price controls in 1971, he was publicly praised by the chairman of General Motors, and cooperation with these policies was urged by the National Association of Manufacturers and the U. S. Chamber of Commerce. Businesses themselves have pushed for laws making it harder for outside investors to take over a corporation and replace its management. Business leaders are not 'When I taught economics, I used to offer to give an A to any student who could find a favorable reference to businessmen in The Wealth of Nations. None ever did. wedded to a free market philosophy or any other philosophy. They promote their own self-interest any way they can, like other special interest groups. Economists and others who are in fact supporters of free markets have known that for at least two centuries. As noted in earlier chapters, the efficient uses of scarce resources by the economy as a whole depends on a system that features both profits and losses. Businesses are interested only in the profit half If they can avoid losses by getting government subsidies, tariffs and other restrictions against imports, or domestic laws that stifle competition in various agricultural products, they will do so. Losses, however, are essential to the process that shifts resources to those who are providing what consumers want at the lowest prices-and away from those who are not. The American computer industry is a classic example. Over a period of more than a decade, the prices of computers declined by an average of more than 30 percent annually. Meanwhile, the advances in computer chip design led to a 30 percent annual increase in the power to process millions of pieces of information per second. Yet, during this incredible era of progress, some computer companies have operated at huge losses, while others have profited greatly. Data General lost $59 million dollars in one year, UNISYS lost $436 million and IBM lost $18 billion in two years. Resources