sale price Often there are little defects in the home that need to be corrected, or cosmetic changes that need to be made, before the house goes on the market. An agent who keeps up with changing fashions in homes and their furnishings is not only more likely to know what these things are but also whether or to what extent money spent upgrading the house will be recouped in a higher sale price, or whether it is better to sell the house "as is" as a bargain "fixer-upper." The agent is also more likely to be knowledgeable as to which particular contractors are more reliable or more reasonable in price for doing whatever repairs or remodeling are called for, as well as which financial institutions are best to deal with for the buyer and seller of this particular house. Therefore, the same house is likely to bring in more money when sold through a real estate agent, just as a writer's manuscript is likely to sell for more through a literary agent. Franchises Knowledge is shared in both directions when hotels, restaurants and other businesses are franchised. The knowledge offered by the chain that does the franchising is based on its experience with similar businesses in various locations around the country. It is also likely to be more knowledgeable about where and how to advertise and how to deal with suppliers. However, the local franchisee is likely to be more knowledgeable about things that only someone on the scene can know-the local labor market, changes in the surrounding community and of course all the details that have to be monitored on the premises day to day. Chains and franchises are not synonymous. The first great hamburger .. chain-the chain that put the hamburger on the map in the 1920s-was the White Castle chain, which owned all of its hundreds of restaurants. Its top management, however, had much local experience before going regional and then national--and they made many visits to their local outlets to keep in touch. The era of the franchised restaurant chain began with Howard Johnson in the 1930s and the heyday of franchised hamburger stands began with McDonald's in the 1950s. By and large, franchises have been more successful in these fields. By 1990, more than one-third of all revenues from retail sales of goods and services in the United States went to franchise holders. Nearly three-quarters of all revenues from hotels and motels were earned by those affiliated with chains. MARKET VERSUS NON-MARKET ECONOMIES The fact that profits are contingent on efficiency in producing what consumers want, at a price that consumers are willing to pay-and that losses are an ever-present threat if a business fails to provide that-explains much of the economic prosperity found in economies that operate under free market competition. Profits as a realized end-result are crucial to the individual business, but it is the prospect of profits-and the threat of losses-that is crucial to the functioning of the economy as a