felt confident that he would never have to redeem more than one-third of the gold that he held for other people at any given time, then he could lend Out the other two-thirds and earn interest on it. Since the receipts for gold and two-thirds of the gold itself were both in circulation at the same time, the goldsmiths were, in effect, adding to the total money supply. In this way, there arose two of the major features of modern banking--(1) holding only a fraction of the reserves needed to cover deposits and (2) adding to the total money supply. Since all the depositors are not going to Want their money at one time, the bank lends most of it to other people, in . Order to earn interest on those loans. Some of this interest they share with the depositors by paying interest on their bank accounts. Again, with the depositors writing checks on their accounts while part of the money in those accounts is also circulating as loans to other people, the banking system is in effect adding to the national money supply, over and above the money printed by the government. One of the reasons this system worked was that the whole banking system has never been called upon to actually supply cash to cover all the checks written by depositors. Instead, if the Acme Bank receives a million dollars worth of checks from its depositors, who received these checks from people whose accounts are with the Zebra Bank, the Acme bank does not ask the Zebra Bank for the million dollars. Instead, the Acme Bank balances these checks off against whatever checks were written by its own depositors and ended up in the hands of the Zebra Bank. For example, if Acme bank depositors had written $1,200,000 worth of checks to businesses and individuals who then deposited those checks in the Zebra Bank, then Acme Bank would just pay the difference. This way, only $200,000 is needed to secure more than two millions dollars' worth of checks that had been written on accounts in the two banks. Both banks could keep just a fraction of their deposits in cash because all the checks written on all the banks required just a fraction of the total amounts on those checks to settle the differences between banks. Moreover, since all depositors would not want their money in cash at the same time, a relatively small amount of hard cash would permit a much larger amount of credits created by the banking system to function as money in the economy, expanding the aggregate demand beyond the money issued by the government. This system, called "fractional reserve banking," worked fine in normal times. But it was very vulnerable when many depositors wanted hard cash at the same time. While most depositors are not going to ask for their money at the same time under normal conditions, there are special situations where more depositors will ask for their money than the