for them and enable them to earn higher incomes in the future. Similarly, rent control often ends up harming both tenants and landlords, though in different ways. Landlords are unlikely to end up living homeless on the streets, though some former tenants may, given that homelessness is particularly prevalent in cities with strong rent control laws. Individuals who stand in the relationship of employer and employee, or landlord and tenant, would never have entered into such relationships in the first place unless both sides expected to become better off than they would have been if they had not entered into these relationships. In other words, it is not a zero-sum activity. That is why anything which reduces such relationships is likely to be harmful to both parties-a fact often overlooked by those who think in terms of taking sides. Zero-sum thinking is especially misleading in countries where wealth is growing. Discussions of the relative shares going to different social groups are often illustrated by pie-charts showing who gets how big a slice of the nation's income. But the actual economic well-being of all these groups their per capita real income-is often far more dependent on how big the whole pie is rather than how one group's slice compares to another group's slice. As noted in Chapter 9, even when the share of national income going to the lowest fifth declined, the per capita real income of people in that quintile rose by thousands of dollars. Those who are preoccupied with relative shares often show little or no interest in the growth of wealth. That is, they not only fail to pay much attention to the statistics on the growth of national wealth, more fundamentally they show little or no interest in which conditions or which policies would enhance the prospects for such growth and which policies might impede that growth. They tend to view economic policies largely, if not solely, in terms of how these policies will affect the internal distribution of income, rather than its over-all growth. Internationally, zero-sum thinking has led some nations to keep out foreign investors, for fear that these investors would carry off part of the national wealth. Similar thinking has led to popular resentments of various immigrant minorities who send money back to their families in the countries that they came from, because this has been seen as exporting part of the national wealth to another country. Like much zero-sum thinking, this depends on blindly disregarding the creation of wealth. Neither investors nor immigrants simply come into a country and share its pre-existing wealth. They create additional wealth. Part of this additional wealth goes to the population of the country to which they have moved and part goes to themselves and their families, wherever these might be located. But the host country population loses nothing on net balance and typically gains. If the kind of thinking which would lead people to believe otherwise seems primitive or illogical, that is not to say that it