the newer and more productive sectors or unemployment may force them out of sectors whose products or technologies are becoming obsolete. Simple and obvious as this may seem, it is often misunderstood by those who are shocked to see some sectors of the economy prospering at the same time when others are being "left behind" or are even suffering losses of business and jobs. Too often there is no sense that these are all part of the same process, rather than separate happen-stances that are good for some and bad for others. There were, for example, many laments in nineteenth century England for the plight of the handloom weavers, increasingly displaced by power looms that produced cloth more cheaply and thereby made clothing more affordable to millions. Today, in an affluent age, when physically adequate clothing is so widely available that only issues of style and brand name concern most people in modern industrial societies, it is difficult to imagine the hardships endured by many people in centuries past who were unable to afford enough clothing to provide adequate protection against the elements I-or what a blessing it was to them to have the prices of clothes brought down to a level where they could finally afford them, because of advances in the mechanization of production. Their good fortune and the misfortunes of the handloom weavers were inseparably part of the same process. In the late twentieth century, China's robust economic growth rate in the wake of opening up more of the economy to free markets after the death of Mao in 1978 led to rising real incomes in those regions of the country where free markets were first allowed. Nationally, this meant a growing income inequality, since the state-run industries and sectors remained inefficient and poor. Here was the situation before the reforms took effect, as described by The Economist magazine: When the economic reform era began in the late 1970s, urban residents enjoyed guaranteed jobs for life, free housing and health care. Unemployment was virtually non-existent and rural residents were banned from moving into urban areas. There was no private enterprise. Most people's lives were spartan. --(1) At one time, centuries ago, hospitals in parts of Europe had to take precautions to see that clothing was not stolen from the bodies of people who had died, when there were so many people desperate for adequate clothing. This government-guaranteed subsidence for all at a poverty level was referred to as "the iron rice bowl" and it was egalitarian. When the new leader, Deng Xiaoping, announced a new policy of seeking to raise the economic level of the country as a whole, he said: "Let some people get rich first" by allowing the kinds of incentives that exist in prosperous capitalist countries. This policy led to rapid growth rates for China's economy, with spectacular results for particular regions, sectors and individuals. The reasons for growing inequalities, were not just that those left out of these experimental reforms did not experience