run economic activities-and the first to encounter directly the economic and social catastrophes to which that belief led, as he himself admitted. Given the decisive advantages of knowledge and insight in a market economy, even when this knowledge and insight are in the minds of people born and raised in poverty, like J. C. Penney or F. W. Woolworth, we can see why market economies have outperformed other economies that depend on ideas originating within a narrow elite of birth or ideology. While market economies are often thought of as money economies, they are still more so knowledge economies, for money can always be found to back new insights, technologies and organizational methods that work, even when these innovations were created by people initially lacking in money, whether Henry Ford, Thomas Edison, David Packard, Ray Kroc, or others. Capital is always available under capitalism, but knowledge and insights are rare and precious under any system. Knowledge can be bought and sold in a free market, like anything else. Writers, athletes, and entertainers have agents, whose knowledge increases the earning power of those they represent. Operators of hotel, restaurant, or other franchises exchange their particular knowledge of local conditions for the franchisers' general knowledge of how to run such businesses and market them to the public. At one time, young people who lacked both money and knowledge could purchase the knowledge they needed by exchanging their own unpaid labor for experience that would enable them to get on the economic ladder and eventually move up that ladder as far as their abilities would take them. Laws, policies, and adverse public opinion have largely closed that avenue of advancement for the poor, though people whose initial productivity is great enough to make them employable at pay scales set by minimum wage laws or union contracts can still purchase knowledge and experience by working for less than they might get elsewhere, in order to move from apprentices to journeymen in skilled trades or from interns to physicians in medicine. Knowledge should not be narrowly conceived as the kind of information in which intellectuals and academics specialize. We should not be like the depiction of the famous scholar Benjamin Jowett, master of Balliol College at Oxford, who inspired this verse: My name is Benjamin Jowett. If it's knowledge, I know it. I am the master of this college, What I don't know isn't knowledge. In reality, there is much that the intelligentsia do not know that is vital knowledge in the functioning of an economy. It may be easy to disdain the kinds of highly specific knowledge and implications which are often economically decisive by asking, for example: How much knowledge does it take to fry a hamburger? Yet McDonald's did not become a multi-billion dollar corporation, with thousands of outlets around the world, for no reason-not with so many rivals trying desperately and unsuccessfully to do the same, and some even failing to make enough money to stay in business. Anyone who studies