the 1920s, when 40 marks were worth one dollar in July 1920 but it took more than 4 trillion marks to be worth one dollar by November 1923. People discovered that their life's savings were not enough to buy a pack of cigarettes. The German government had, in effect, stolen virtually everything they owned by the simple process of keeping more than 1,700 printing presses running day and night, printing money. Here too, the circulation of money speeded up, causing the inflation to in": crease even more than the increase in the money supply. During the worst of the inflation, in October 1923, prices rose 41 percent per day. Workers were paid twice a day and some were allowed time off in the middle of the day to enable them to rush off to the stores to buy things before the prices rose yet again. In other cases, wives showed up at work at lunchtime to take their husband's pay and rush off to spend it before it lost too much value. Some have blamed the economic chaos and bitter disillusionment of this era for setting the stage for the rise of Adolf Hider and the Nazis. DEFLATION While inflation has been a problem that is centuries old, at particular times and places deflation has also been devastating. As noted at the beginning of chapter 15, the money supply in the United States declined by one-third from 1929 to 1932, making it impossible for Americans to buy as many goods and services as before at the old prices. Prices did come down-the Sears catalog for 1931 had many prices lower than they had been a decade earlier-but some prices could not change because there were legal contracts involved. Mortgages on homes, farms, stores, and office buildings all specified monthly mortgage payments in money terms. These terms might have been quite reasonable and easy to meet when the total amount of money in the economy was substantially larger, but now it was the same as if these payments had been arbitrarily raised-as in fact they were raised in real purchasing power terms. Many home-owners, farmers and businesses simply could not pay after the national money supply contracted-and therefore they lost the places that housed them. People with leases faced very similar problems, as it became increasingly difficult to come up with the money to pay the rent. The vast amounts of goods and services purchased on credit by businesses and individuals alike produced debts that were now harder to payoff than when the credit was extended in an economy with a larger money supply. Those whose wages and salaries were specified in contracts-whether unionized workers or professional baseball players-were now legally entitled to more real purchasing power than when these contracts were originally signed. So were government employees, whose salary scales were fixed by law. But, while deflation benefited these particular groups if they kept their jobs, the difficulty of paying them meant that many would lose their jobs. Similarly, banks