about double the local wages in poor countries, the loss of these jobs is likely to translate into more hardship for Third World workers, even as their would-be benefactors in the West congratulate themselves on having ended "exploitation." Lurking in the background of much confused thinking about international trade and international transfers of wealth is an implicit assumption of a zero-sum contest, where some can gain only if others lose. Thus, for example, some have claimed that multinational corporations profit by "exploiting" workers in the Third World. If so, it is hard to explain why the vast majority of American investments in other countries go to richer countries, not poorer countries. More than four-fifths of all U.S. direct investment in other countries in the year 2000 went to high-income countries, such as Canada, Japan, and Western European nations. Another 18 percent went to middle income countries like Brazil, Indonesia, Mexico, and Thailand. That left just one percent invested in low-income countries such as those in sub-Saharan Africa or in the less developed parts of Asia. Why are profit-seeking companies investing far more where they will have to pay high wages to workers in affluent industrial nations, instead of low wages to "sweatshop" labor in the Third World? Why are they passing up supposedly golden opportunities to "exploit" the poorest workers? Exploitation may be an intellectually convenient, emotionally satisfying, and politically expedient explanation of income differences between nations or between groups within a given nation, but it does not have the additional feature of fitting the facts about where profit-seeking enterprises invest their money. Moreover, even within poor countries, the very poorest people are typically those with the least contact with multinational corporations, often because they are located away from the ports and other business centers. American multinational corporations alone have provided employment to more than 30 million people worldwide. But, given their international investment patterns, few of those jobs are likely to be in the poorest countries where they are most needed. In some relatively few cases, a multinational corporation may in fact invest in a Third World country, where the local wages are sufficiently lower to compensate for the lower productivity of the workers and/or the higher costs of shipping in a less developed transportation system and/or the bribes that have to be paid to government officials to operate in many such countries. . Various reformers or protest movements of college students and others In the affluent countries may then wax indignant over the low wages and "sweatshop" conditions in these Third World enterprises. However, if these protest movements succeed politically in forcing up the wages and working conditions in these countries, the net result can be that even fewer foreign Chapter 21 An Overview Free trade may have wide support among economists, but its support among the public at large is considerably less. An international poll conducted by The Economist magazine found more people in favor of protectionism than of free trade in Britain, France, Italy, Australia, Russia,