of treating businesses as economic assets, rather than economic prey. A hotel cannot move across state lines, but a hotel chain can build their new hotels somewhere else. New steel mills with the latest technology can likewise be built elsewhere, while the old obsolete steel mill is closed down or phased out. As in the case of bus fares kept too low to sustain the same level and quality of service in the long run, here too the passage of time may be so long that few people connect the political policies and practices of the past with the current deterioration of the region into "rust belt" communities with declining employment opportunities for its young people and a declining tax base to support local services. Time and Foresight Even though many government officials may not look ahead beyond the next election, individual citizens who are subjected to the laws and policies that officials impose nevertheless have foresight that causes many of these laws and policies to have very different consequences from those that were intended. For example, when tax rates are raised 10 percent, it may be assumed that tax revenues will also rise by 10 percent. But in fact more people may move out of the heavily taxed jurisdiction, or buy less of the heavily taxed commodity, so that the revenues received may be disappointingly far below what was estimated. The state of Alaska discovered this when it passed a law greatly increasing its tax rates on cigarettes The tax was to go into effect October 1, 1997. Smokers struck back by buying an astounding 175 million more cigarettes than usual in the three months before the tax deadline. Richard Watts of the Great Alaska Tobacco Company told the local papers that some smokers even bought sixty-carton cases-at $1,200 each-rather than pay the tax. As for Alaska's Department of Revenue, it saw its revenue go up in smoke: collections slowed 60 percent following the infamous increase date. Conversely, when the federal tax rate on capital gains was lowered from 28 percent to 20 percent in 1997, it was assumed that revenues from the capital gains tax would fall below the $54 billion collected in 1996 and the $209 billion projected to be collected over the next four years, before the tax rate was cut. Instead, tax revenues rose after the capital gains tax rate was Cut: $372 billion were collected in capital gains taxes over the next four years. People adjusted their behavior to a more favorable outlook for investments by increasing their investments, so that the new 20 percent tax rate on the returns from these increased investments amounted to more revenue than that produced by the old 28 percent tax rate. Instead of keeping their money in tax-exempt municipal bonds, for example, investors would now find it more advantageous to invest in producing real goods and services With a higher rate of return, now that lower tax rates enabled them to keep more of their gains. It