surgeons will work or how early they will retire, but also how many replacements they will ' have, as young people decide whether or not it is worth all the years and effort it takes to become a brain surgeon. Those who have the biggest stake in all this are people suffering from medical conditions that require brain surgery. Despite a tendency in some quarters to see economic choices as a zero-sum activity involving a trade-off between the interests of two competing groups, very often the third parties who are ignored are affected most of all. Moreover, seeing economic issues as simply issues about how to divide up money ignores the larger role of financial incentives in allocating resources. From the standpoint of society as a whole, money is just an artifact used to get real things done. How well those real things are done is what determines the material well-being of the people in that society. Unmerited misfortunes and windfall gains leave many people uneasy, especially when these undeserved happenstances have large effects on someone's whole way of life. The desire to help the less fortunate may be especially strong, but whether a particular policy will in fact have that effect is not an easy question to answer-except for those who simply want to "do something" to express their sympathy or solidarity, without regard to the actual consequences. Income Distribution So-called "income distribution" issues often include concern about the rich and the disproportionate share of the national income that they receive. Where the term "rich" simply refers to the top 10 percent or 20 percent of income earners as of a given time, then these are more likely to be people who have simply reached their peak earnings years-usually in their forties or fifties-rather than people who are genuinely rich in the sense of having enough wealth to live on without continuing to work. However, even considering the genuinely rich, how much do they cost the rest of society? Their total wealth is not subtracted from the total output of the country, but only what they actually consume, which is typically a tiny fraction of what they own, as well as a fraction of the wealth that they have created for others in the process of earning their fortunes. Often there is a sense of amazement, or even resentment in some quarters, when the rich spend huge sums of money on such things as rare stamps or antique furniture. But often these are items of little or no use or interest to most people, even though their prices may be bid up to astronomical levels by a few rich people bidding against one another. The loss to the society .IS typically trivial. For example, a rare camera used by the Japanese navy 111 World War II was put on sale for $40,000, but better photographs can be taken with cameras on sale today for less than one percent of that. In such cases, the rich are paying for the