often including air conditioning, for example. In reality, we find just the opposite. Third World farmers may toil away under a hot sun and in difficult working conditions that were once common in Western nations that have long since gotten soft and prosperous under modern capitalism. If those who are not laborers derive their wealth from exploiting labor, then we should expect to see countries with many wealthy people having ordinary working people who are especially poor. The United States, for example, not only leads the world in the number of billionaires, but has nearly as many billionaires as the rest of the world combined, so ordinary Americans should be especially poor, if the exploitation theory is correct. But in fact ordinary Americans have long had the highest standard of living in the world. The growth and development of such non-labor inputs as science, engineering and sophisticated investment and management policies, as well as the institutional benefits of a price-coordinated economy, have made the difference and given hundreds of millions of people higher standards of living. Again, this is not something that is difficult to grasp-once the misconceptions have been gotten rid of However, those misconceptions tend to linger on wherever they can find refuge, even after they have been formally banished by logic and evidence. Official government statistics are still cast in such terms as "unearned income," and "productivity" is often defined as output divided by the labor that went into it. International trade is still discussed as if high-wage countries cannot compete successfully with low-wage countries, as if labor were the only cost of production. In reality, high-wage countries have been competing successfully with low-wage countries for centuries, precisely because of advantages in capital, technology and organization, which enable high-wage workers to produce so much more that the labor cost per unit of output is often lower than in low-wage countries. For years, India banned imports of automobiles from the United States and Japan, in order to protect its own domestically produced cars, made by workers who were paid much less than American or Japanese workers. Consumers in India were for years forced to pay far higher prices for automobiles-and to get on waiting lists to buy them-because the products of their low-wage workers could not compete in price or quality with automobiles shipped thousands of miles from high-wage countries. Misconceptions have practical consequences, sometimes needlessly holding down the standard of living of poor people. Antipathy toward "unearned incomes" has led to attempts to control or suppress profits in various countries at various periods of history, with the result of discouraging the investment of capital that those countries have desperately needed, in order to raise the standard of living of their people. In some cases, the more prosperous classes in these poor countries have invested their capital abroad, in richer industrial nations that do not tax or restrict capital so much-leading to international transfers of wealth from where it is most scarce to where it is most abundant,