ship needed to contribute to the country's economic advancement. In India, for example, two of its leading entrepreneurial families, the Tatas and the Birlas, were repeatedly frustrated in their efforts to obtain the necessary government permission to expand their enterprises: The Tatas made 119 proposals between 1960 and 1989 to start new businesses or expand old ones, and all of them ended up in the wastebaskets of bureaucrats. Aditya Birla, the young and dynamic inheritor of the Birla empire, who had trained at MIT, was so disillusioned with Indian policy that he decided to expand Birla enterprises outside India, and eventually set up dynamic companies in Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, and the Philippines, away from the hostile atmosphere of his home. , The vast array of government rules micro-managing businesses "ensured :. that every businessman would break some law or other every month," according to an India executive. Large businesses in India set up their own bureaucracies in Delhi, parallel to those of the government, in order to try to keep track of the progress of their applications for the innumerable government permissions required to do things that businesses did on their own in free market economies, and to pay bribes as necessary to secure these permissions. The consequences of suffocating bureaucratic controls in India have been shown not only by such experiences while they were in full force but also by the country's dramatic economic improvements after many of these controls were relaxed or eliminated. The economy's growth rate increased dramatically after reforms in 1991 freed many of its entrepreneurs from some of the worst controls, and foreign investment in India rose from $150 million to $3 billion. Hostility to entrepreneurial minorities like the Chinese in Southeast Asia or the Lebanese in West Africa has been especially fierce among the newly educated indigenous people, who see their own diplomas and degrees bringing them much less economic reward than the earnings of minority business owners who may have less formal schooling than themselves. In short, more schooling is not automatically more human capital. It can in some cases reduce a country's ability to use the human capital that it already possesses. SPECULATION Most market transactions involve buying things that exist, based on whatever value they have to the buyer and whatever price is charged by the seller. Some transactions, however, involve buying things that do not yet exist or whose value has yet to be determined-or both. For example, the price of stock in the Internet company Amazon.com rose for years before the company made its first dollar of profits. People were obviously speculating that the company would eventually make profits or that others would keep bidding the price up, so that the initial stockholder could sell the stock for a profit, whether or not Amazon.com itself ever made a profit. After years of operating at a loss, Amazon.com finally made its first profit in 2001. Exploring for oil is a costly speculation, since millions of dollars may be spent before