to establish a foundation to serve a given purpose and expect it to stick to that purpose after the money has been contributed and the donors are dead. Academic institutions, hospitals and foundations are usually non-profit organizations in the United States, although non-profit institutions cover a wide range and can also engage in activities normally engaged in by profit seeking enterprises, such as selling SunKist oranges or publishing The Smithsonian magazine. In whatever activities they engage, non-profit organizations are not under the same pressures to get "the most bang for the buck" as are enterprises in which profit and loss determine their survival. This effects efficiency, not only in the narrow financial sense, but also in the broader sense of achieving avowed purposes. Colleges and universities, for example, can become disseminates of particular ideological views that happen to be in vogue ("political correctness") and restrictors of alternative views, even though the goals of education would be better served by exposing students to a range of contrasting and contending ideas. Two centuries ago, Adam Smith pointed out how academics running colleges and universities financed by endowments can run them in self-serving ways, being "very indulgent to one another," so that each academic would "consent that his neighbor may neglect his duty, provided he himself is allowed to neglect his own." Widespread complaints today that professors neglect teaching in favor of research, and sometimes neglect both in favor of leisure or other activities, suggest that the underlying principle has not changed much in more than two hundred years. Tenure guaranteeing lifetime appointments are common in non-profit colleges and universities, but are practically unknown in businesses that must meet the competition of the marketplace. This is only one of the ways in which the employment policies of nonprofit organizations have more latitude than those of enterprises that operate in the hope of profit and under the threat of losses. Before World War II, hospitals were among most racially discriminatory of American employers, even though their avowed purposes would have been better served by hiring the best-qualified doctors, even when those doctors happened to be black or Jewish. Non-profit foundations were also among the most racially discriminatory institutions at that time. The same was true of the academic world, where the first black professor was not hired at a major university until 1940, not long after the first Jewish professor received tenure at Columbia University, which was already more than 150 years old at the time. It was only in the postwar era, with racial attitudes beginning to change in the wake of the horrors of the Nazi Holocaust, that either blacks or Jews began to have more widespread access to positions in non-profit organizations. None of this should suggest that non-profit organizations are oblivious to money. It is just that the purposes for which the money is spent may be quite different from the purposes for which it was donated. Non-profit organizations can be very eager to get more money, and some even