might have been constructed by the family or with the help of friends and neighbors. As these activities moved from the family to the market I In times past, it was common in many working-class communities around the world for the husband to turn most of his pay over to his wife to spend for the family's needs, including her own. This pattern remained widespread in Japan at the end of the twentieth century. But such transactions went unrecorded. place, the money paid for them made them part of official statistics. This makes it harder to know how much of the statistical trends in output over time represent real increases in totals and how much of these trends represent differences in how much has been recorded or gone unrecorded. Just as national output statistics can overstate increases over time, they can also understate these increases. In very poor Third World countries, increasing prosperity can look statistically like stagnation. One of the ravages of extreme poverty is a high infant mortality rate, as well as health risks to others from inadequate food or shelter. As Third World countries rise economically, one of the first consequences of higher income per capita is that more infants, small children, and frail old people are able to survive, now that they can afford better nutrition and medical care. This is particularly likely at the lower end of the income scale. But, with more poor people now surviving, both absolutely and relative to the more prosperous classes, a higher percentage of the country's population now consists of these poor people. Statistically, the averaging in of more poor people can understate the country's average rise in real income or can even make the average income decline statistically, even if every individual in the country has higher incomes than in the past. 2 (2) Imagine a Third World country with 100 million people, one-fourth of whom average $1,000 a year in per capita income, another fourth average $2,000, another fourth $4,000 and the top fourth $5,000. Now imagine that (1) everyone's income rises by 20 percent and (2) the two poorest classes double in size as a result of reduced mortality rates, while the two top classes remain the same size. If you work out the arithmetic, you will see that per capita income for the country as a whole remains the same. Obviously, if the income had risen by less than 20 percent, per capita income would have fallen, even though each individual's income rose. Chapter 16 Money and the Banking System Any commodity to be called "money" must be generally acceptable in exchange, and any commodity generally acceptable in exchange should be called money. -IRVING FISCHER Everyone seems to want money, but there have been particular times in particular countries when no one wanted money, because they considered it worthless. In reality, it was the fact that no one would accept money that made it worthless. When you can't buy anything with money, it becomes just