goal of a law-"affordable housing," in this case-is far less important than its actual consequences. Just as rent control reduces the housing stock, so the end of rent control often marks the beginning of private building, as it did in Sweden. In Massachusetts, a statewide ban on local rent control laws in 1994 led to the construction of new apartment buildings in formerly rent-controlled cities for the first time in 25 years. In short, with housing as with other things, less is supplied at a lower price than at a higher price-less both quantitatively and qualitatively. Polls of economists have found virtually unanimous agreement that declines in product quantity and quality are the usual effects of price controls in general. Of course, there are not enough economists in the entire country for their votes to matter very much to politicians. The Politics of Rent Control Politically, rent control is often a big success, however many serious economic and social problems it creates. Politicians know that there are always more tenants than landlords and more people who do not understand economics than people who do. Often it is politically effective to represent rent control as a way to keep greedy rich landlords from "gouging" the poor with "unconscionable" rents. In reality, rates of return on investments in housing are seldom higher than on alternative investments and landlords are often people of very modest means. This is especially so for owners of small, low-end apartment buildings that are in constant need of repair. Many of the landlords with buildings like this are handymen who use their own skills and labor to maintain the premises, while trying to payoff the mortgage with the rents they collect. In short, the kind of housing likely to be rented by the poor often has owners who are by no means rich. Where rent control applies to luxury housing, the tenants may be quite affluent. In Manhattan, for example, the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange paid less than $700 a month for a rent-controlled apartment on fashionable Central Park South. Another tenant on Central Park South paid just $400 a month for a six-room apartment. With rent-controlled prices so low, some people who did not even live in New York had apartments there for use when they were in town. Hollywood actress Shelley Winters, who owned a home in Beverly Hills, also rented a two-bedroom apartment in Manhattan for a rent-controlled price of less than $900 a month. New York Mayor Ed Koch paid less than half of that for his rent-controlled apartment in Washington Square, which he kept during the entire 12 years when he lived in Gracie Mansion, the official residence of the mayor. Meanwhile, city welfare agencies have paid much higher rents than these when they housed poverty-stricken families in cramped and roach-infested apartments in run-down hotels. The idea that rent control protects poor tenants from rich landlords may be politically effective, but often it bears little resemblance to the reality. San