it could be made more realistic than it was. When considering particular markets for particular products, we are dealing with familiar concrete things, whether hamburgers or hotels, busses or barbecues. But when discussing national output as a whole, which consists of innumerable very different things that can only be added up abstractly, there is much more room for confusion by some and manipulation of that confusion by others. The money supply and the banking system are key features of the national economy. Like so many other things, banking looks easy from the outside simply take in deposits and lend much of it out, earning interest in the process and sharing some of that interest with the depositors to keep them putting their money into the banks. Yet we do not want to repeat the mistake that Lenin made in grossly under-estimating the complexity of business in general. At the beginning of the twenty-first century, some post-Communist Nations were having great difficult creating a banking system that could operate in a free market. In Albania and in the Czech Republic, for example, banks were able to receive deposits but were stymied by the problem of how to lend out the money to private businesses in a way that would bring returns on their investment. The London magazine The Economist reported that "the legal infrastructure is so weak" in Albania that the head of a bank there "is afraid to make any loans." Here we see again the problem of property rights discussed in the previous chapter. Even though another Albanian bank made loans, it found the collateral it acquired from a defaulting borrower was "impossible to sell." An Albanian bank with 83 percent of the country's deposits made no loans at all, but bought government securities instead, earning a low but dependable rate of return. What this means for the country's economy as a whole, The Economist reported, is that "capital-hungry enterprises are robbed of a source of finance." In the post-Communist Czech Republic, lending was more generous and losses much larger. Here the government stepped in to cover losses and the banks shifted their assets into government securities, as in Albania. As with Britain in earlier centuries, foreigners have been brought in to run financial institutions that the people of the country were having great difficulty running. Whether such problems will sort themselves out over time-and how much time?-as private enterprises acquire track records and private bankers acquire more experience, while the legal system adapts to a market economy after the long decades of a Communist economic and political regime, is obviously a question for the Czechs and the Albanians. However, their experience again illustrates the fact that one of the best ways of understanding and appreciating an economic function is by seeing what happens when that function does not exist or malfunctions. Understanding political functions can be as much of a challenge as understanding economic functions. What is especially challenging is deciding which things should be done through the