in the United States, Germany, Japan, Brazil, and South Korea were published on page 61 of The Economist magazine of March 9, 2000. Professor Jagdish Bhagwati's experience debating at Cornell is from pages 8 and 9 of his book Free Trade Today, published in 2002 by the Princeton University Press. Joseph Stiglitz's criticisms of the International Monetary Fund are found, among other places, in his book Globalization and Its Discontents. Data on the increasing role of international trade in the American economy is from page 76 of Saving Capitalism from the Capitalists by Rajan and Zingales. Information on the role of foreign investments in the economic development of the United States is from "U. S. Foreign Financial Relations in the Twentieth Century," by Barry Eichengreen in The Cambridge Economic History of the United States, Vol. III: The Twentieth Century, edited by Stanley L. Engerman and Robert E. Gallman and published in the year 2000 by the Cambridge University Press. The positive growth rates of poor countries that are more "globalized" and the negative growth rates of those that are not at from The Economist of December 8, 2001, under the title "Going Global." The report on failed development projects in Niger are from a front page story in the May 10, 2002 issue of the Wall Street Journal, under the titled "The Radio Offers Africans Rare Aid in Tune With Needs," by Roger Thurow. CHAPTER 22: "NON-ECONOMIC" VALUES Businessweek's survey of philanthropic entrepreneurs appeared in the December 2, 2002 issue, beginning on page 82. The complaint that the newspapers have to meet profit requirements determined by "faceless Wall Street analysts" is from a letter to the editor of Editor & Publisher magazine, published on page 4 of the October 8, 2001 issue. CHAPTER 23: MYTHS ABOUT MARKETS The role of the Indian software company Wipro in maintaining the computer systems for the American hardware chain Home Depot was mentioned on page W7 of the December 25, 2002 issue of the New York Times, in a story titled "India is Regaining Contacts With U.S.," written by Saritha Rai and beginning on page W1. The fact that phone calls to Harrod's department store in London are answered by people in India is noted on page 336 of India Unbound by Gurcharan Das. The fact that more than half the life insurance in the Philippines, Malaysia, and Singapore is provided by foreign insurance companies was reported on page 57 of The Economist, August 11,2001 issue, in an article titled "Unprofitable Policies." The imported components used to produce Britain's Mini Cooper automobile are mentioned on page W7 of the May 16, 2003 issue of the New York Times, in a story beginning on page W1 titled "A Tale of 2 Carmakers and 2 Countries" by John Tiagliabue. The relationship between the Jews and the Jains in Antwerp was reported on page B6 of the May 27, 2003 issue of the Wall Street Journal, in a story that began on page Blunder the title, "A