imported manufactured products from more advanced nations on the continent of Europe. Britain's financial institutions were run by foreigners and whole British industries, such as watch-making and piano-manufacturing, were created by immigrants and expatriates. It was only after centuries of learning from others that Britain was ready to take its place at the head of technological and organizational advances in the world economy. Japan went through a similar phase in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. PART VII: SPECIAL ECONOMIC ISSUES Chapter 22 Non-Economic Values While economics offers many insights and makes it easier to see through some popular notions that sound good but will not stand up under scrutiny, economics has also acquired the name "the dismal science" because it pours cold water on many otherwise attractive and exciting-but fallacious-notions about how the world can be arranged. One of the last refuges of someone whose pet project or theory has been exposed as economic nonsense is to say: "Economics is all very well, but there are also noneconomic values to consider." Presumably, these are supposed to be higher and nobler concerns that soar above the level of crass materialism. Of course there are non-economic values. In fact, there are only non-economic values. Economics is not a value in and of itself. It is only a way of weighing one value against another. Economics does not say that you should make the most money possible. Many professors of economics could themselves make more money in private industry. Anyone with a knowledge of firearms could probably make more money working as a hit man for organized crime. But economics does not urge you toward such choices. Adam Smith, the father of laissez-faire economics, gave away substantial sums of his own money to less fortunate people, though he did so with such discretion that this fact was discovered only after his death, when his personal records were examined. Henry Thornton, one of the great monetary economists of the nineteenth century and a banker by trade, regularly gave away more than half his annual income before he got married and had a family to support-and he continued to give large donations to humanitarian causes afterwards, including the anti-slavery movement. The first public libraries in New York City were not established by the government but by industrial entrepreneur Andrew Carnegie, who also established the foundation and the university that bear his name. John D. Rockefeller likewise established the foundation that bears his name and the University of Chicago, as well as creating many other philanthropic enterprises. Halfway around the world, the Tata Institute in Bombay was established by the country's leading industrialist, J. R. Tata. In eighteenth century Britain, canals were built with donations from businessmen. The United States, which has come to epitomize capitalism in the eyes of any people around the world, is unique in having hundreds of colleges, hospitals, foundations, scholarship funds, libraries, museums and other institutions created by the donations of private individuals, many of these being individuals who