well as from one person to another and from one sector of the economy to another. How much of a natural resource this generation will use, and how much it will leave for future generations, depends on the "present value" of that resource, which in turn depends on the interest rate, as well as estimates of the resource's future price, based on its future scarcity. If we were in fact likely to run out of some resource any time soon, its present value would skyrocket, With high prices forcing cutbacks in its use today-which is to say, forcing us to share it with future generations. Not only the economy as a whole, but each individual as well, allocates his or her income over time by using financial institutions as intermediaries. As Interest rates rise, people tend to consume less of their current incomes and save more, since the reward for saving is higher. In this way, the desire of businesses to invest more for the future is meshed with consumers' willingness to postpone some of their purchases, when these businesses are willing to pay more in higher interest, usually through an intermediary such as a bank that is charging interest to the businesses and paying interest to its depositors from the proceeds. From the standpoint of the economy as a whole, real resources-labor, electricity, raw materials-that would otherwise go into producing goods to be consumed today go instead into creating factories, power plants, or research laboratories to create goods to be consumed in the future. Like other prices, interest rates also allocate resources as between competing contemporaries. FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS Financial institutions allow individuals who do not know each other to use one another's incomes to redistribute their own incomes over time, in effect drawing on future income to pay for current purchases, or alternatively postponing purchases till a later time, when the interest received will enable larger purchases to be made. Everything depends on the current circumstances of each individual's life, with many-if not most-people being both debtors and creditors at different stages of their lives. People who are middle-aged, for example, tend to save more than young people, not only because their incomes are higher but also because of a need to prepare financially for retirement and for the higher medical expenses that old age can be expected to bring. What makes such activities something more than matters of personal finance is that financial transactions are for the economy as a whole another way of allocating scarce resources which have alternative uses-allocating them over time, as well as among individuals and enterprises at a given time. Put differently, a society without well-functioning financial institutions has fewer opportunities to create wealth by joining the entrepreneurial talents of people who lack money to the savings of others, in order to finance new firms and industries. Since many, if not most, great American industries and individual fortunes began with entrepreneurs who had very limited financial resources at the outset-Henry Ford, Thomas Edison,