American steel producers have higher production costs per ton than their German, Japanese, Brazilian and South Korean rivals, it is easier to ask the U.S. government for protection from foreign competitors than to try to reduce their own high costs of production. Another reason for public support for protectionism is that many economists do not bother to answer either the special interests or those who oppose free trade for ideological reasons, since the arguments of both have essentially been refuted long ago and are now regarded in the economics profession as beneath contempt. But this has only allowed vehement and articulate spokesmen to have a more or less free hand to monopolize public opinion, which seldom hears more than one side of the issue. One of the few leading economists to bother answering protectionist arguments has been MIT's internationally renowned economist, Professor Jagdish Bhagwati, who agreed to a public debate against Ralph Nader. Here was his experience: Faced with the critics of free trade, economists have generally reacted with contempt and indifference, refusing to get into the public arena to engage the critics in battle. I was in a public debate with Ralph Nader on the campus of Cornell University a couple of years ago. The debate was in the evening, and in the afternoon I gave a technical talk on free trade to the graduate students of economics. I asked, at the end, how many were going to the debate, and not one hand went up. Why, I asked. The typical reaction was: why waste one's time? As a consequence, of the nearly thousand students who jammed the theater where the debate was held, the vast majority were anti-free traders, all rooting for Mr. Nader. Because the buzzword "globalization" has been coined to describe the growing importance of international trade and global economic interdependence, many tend to see international trade and international financial transactions as something new-allowing both special interests and ideologues to play on the public's fear of the unknown. However, the term "globalization" also covers more than simple free trade among nations. It includes institutional rules governing the reduction of trade barriers and the movements of money. Among the international organizations involved in creating these rules are the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the World Trade Organization. These rules are legitimate subjects of controversy, though these are not all Controversies about free trade, as such. One of the severest critics of the International Monetary Fund, for example, has been Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz, who favors free trade but attacks the specific rules imposed by the IMF when making loans to poor countries. THE ROLE OF TRADE Americans have not had to pay nearly as much attention to international trade as people in other countries, such as Britain or Holland, whose economies have been more dependent on such trade for centuries. Still, American overseas trade has been growing in recent years, not only absolutely but also as a percentage of the U.S. economy. The ratio