Similarly, someone who wins an automobile with a $20 lottery ticket can end up with the same car for which someone else paid $20,000. But one bought a low probability of getting a car and the other bought a virtual certainty. The car they ended up with may be the same but what they bought was not the same. Goods sold in attractively decorated stores with polished and sophisticated sales staffs, as well as easy return policies, are likely to cost more than the physically identical products sold in a stark warehouse store with a no refund policy. Christmas cards can usually be bought for much lower prices on December 26th than on December 24th, even though the cards are physically identical to what they were when they were in great demand before Christmas. A consumer magazine in northern California compared the total cost of buying the identical set of food items of the same brands in various stores in their area. These total costs ranged from $80 in the least expensive store to $125 in the most expensive. Indeed, they ranged from $98 to $103 at three different Safeway supermarkets. Part of the reason for the variations in price was the variation in the cost of real estate in the different communities-the store with the lowest prices being located in less expensive Fremont and the one with the highest prices being located in San Francisco, which has had the highest real estate prices of any major city in the country. The cost of the land on which the stores sat was different and these costs had to be recovered from the prices charged the stores' customers. Another reason is the cost of inventory. The cheapest store had only 49 percent of the items in stock at a given time, while all three Safeway stores had more than three-quarters of the items in stock. In other words, going to different stores meant having different probabilities of finding what you wanted. It was like the difference between buying reserved seats on an airplane versus being a standby. Cost differences reflected differences in availability, which is to say, differences in the costs of maintaining inventory, even when the particular commodities were physically the same. It also meant differences in the costs measured in the time that customer would have to spend going from store to store to find all the items on a grocery shopping list. Mistakes or miscalculations may sometimes cause the same thing to be sold for different prices under comparable conditions temporarily, but competition usually makes this a passing phenomenon. When customers go where prices are lower, those whose prices are higher have little choice but to lower their prices, if they are not offering some offsetting advantages along with the same physical product. Where there are permanently different prices for things that are truly the same, the higher-price seller usually ends up going out of business for lack of customers. "Predatory" Pricing One of the popular myths that