to feed and maintain vast numbers of horses. Workers were also displaced from agriculture as farming methods became more efficient. One of the key factors in the growth of industrial output during the twentieth century was the ever-growing availability of workers displaced from agriculture. How else could modern industries have gotten all the millions of workers needed to fill their factories, except by taking them from the farms? Those who lament the passing of the family farm often see no connection between that and the greater outpouring of goods and services from industry and commerce that created a rising standard of living for millions of people. Nothing is easier for the media or for politicians than to present "human interest" stories about someone whose family has been farming for generations and who has now been forced out of the kind of life they knew and loved by the impersonal economic forces of the marketplace. What is forgotten is that these "impersonal" forces represent benefits to consumers who are just as much persons as the producers who have been arbitrarily selected as the focus of the discussion. The temptation is always there to try to "solve" the problem of those whose plight has been singled out for attention, without regard for the repercussions on others elsewhere. The constant shifting of resources which has contributed to American prosperity was often thwarted for decades in India, which followed policies which made it virtually impossible to fire workers or to shut down certain enterprises. Such government restrictions and controls contributed to India's poverty-by an amount estimated at hundreds of dollars per capita annually. In a poor country, that is a very serious loss. An observer of the Indian economy said: "I sometimes wonder how we could have gone so wrong when we had such brilliant economists." The short answer is that power trumps knowledge-and for nearly half a century the supreme power in India was in the hands of people committed to a government-controlled economy. Efforts by economists to point out what was wrong with the policies being followed were essentially exercises in futility. Some of India's top economists, including a Nobel Prize winner, simply left the country. THE ROLE OF GOVERNMENT Too often there has been a tendency to regard government as a monolithic decision-maker or as the public interest personified. But different elements within the government respond to different outside constituencies and are often in opposition to one another for that reason, as well as because of jurisdictional frictions among themselves. Many things done by government officials in response to the incentives and constraints of the situations in which they find themselves may be described as "irrational" by observers but are often more rational than the assumption that these officials represent the public interest personified. Politicians like to come to the rescue of particular industries, professions, classes, or racial or ethnic groups from whom voting and financial support can be expected-and to represent the benefits to these groups as net benefits to