moment, and therefore on the changing amount of A that we are willing to give up in order to get more B. Incremental substitution means that the relative values of each varies with how much of each we already have available. This variation can be so great as to convert something that is beneficial into something that is detrimental, and vice versa. For example, human beings cannot live without salt, fat, and cholesterol, but most Americans get so much of all three that their lifespan is reduced. Conversely, despite the many problems caused by alcohol, from fatal automobile accidents to deaths from cirrhosis of the liver, studies show that very modest amounts of alcohol have health benefits that can be lifesaving.4 It is not categorically good or bad. Whenever there are two things that each have some value, one cannot be categorically more valuable than another: Enough pennies will be worth more than any diamond. That is why incremental trade-offs tend to produce better results than categorical priorities. Subsidies and Taxes Ideally, prices allow alternative users to compete for scarce resources in the marketplace. However, this competition is distorted to the extent that special taxes are put on some products or resources but not on others, or when some products or resources are subsidized by the government but others are not. Prices charged to the consumers of such specially taxed or specially subsidized goods and services do not convey the real costs of producing them and therefore do not produce the same trade-offs as if they did. Yet there is always a political temptation to subsidize "good" things and tax "bad" things. -. 'Men who drank either nothing alcoholic or just one drink per week had a reduction in cardiovascular disease when they increased their alcohol intake by from one to six drinks per week. However, among men who already averaged seven or more alcoholic drinks per week, an increase in their drinking led to more cardiovascular disease, according to the Journal of the American Medical Association, September 25, 2000 issue. The medical publication The Lancet reported that "light-to-moderate alcohol consumption is associated with a reduced risk of dementia in individuals 55 years or older" in its January 26,2002 issue. However, when neither good things nor bad things are good or bad categorically, this prevents our finding out just how good or how bad any of these things is by letting people choose freely, uninfluenced by politically changed prices. One of the factors in California's periodic water crises, for example, is that California farmers' use of water is subsidized so heavily that its price to farmers is less than one percent of what the same amount of water costs people living in Los Angeles or San Francisco. The net result is that agriculture, which accounts for about 3 percent of the state's output, consumes more than four-fifths of its water. Another consequence of subsidized water is that farmers grow crops requiring great amounts of water, such as rice and cotton,