of college students and others In the affluent countries may then wax indignant over the low wages and "sweatshop" conditions in these Third World enterprises. However, if these protest movements succeed politically in forcing up the wages and working conditions in these countries, the net result can be that even fewer foreign Chapter 21 An Overview Free trade may have wide support among economists, but its support among the public at large is considerably less. An international poll conducted by The Economist magazine found more people in favor of protectionism than of free trade in Britain, France, Italy, Australia, Russia, and the United States. Part of the reason is that the public has no idea how much protectionism costs and how little net benefit it produces. It has been estimated that all the protectionism in the European Union countries put together saves no more than a grand total of 200,000 jobs-at a cost of $43 billion. That works out to about $215,000 for each job saved. In other words, if the European Union permitted 100 percent free international trade, every worker who lost his job as a result of foreign competition could be paid $100,000 a year in compensation and the European Union countries would still come out ahead. Alternatively, the displaced workers could simply go find other jobs. Whatever losses they might encounter in the process do not begin to compare with the staggering costs of keeping therm working where they are. That is because the costs are not simply their salaries, but the even larger costs of producing in less efficient ways. The costs of protectionism can be measured not only in money but also in the number of jobs lost by industries adversely affected by the protection given to one particular industry. When there were 160,000 workers in the American steel industry when tariffs were imposed for their protection and 9 million workers in industries using steel, it can hardly be surprising that there were net losses of jobs from these tariffs. Only part of the problem of getting the general public to understand international trade is due to their not having the facts. Another part is their not having enough knowledge of economics to withstand the barrage of selfserving arguments put out by many in business, labor, and agriculture, who wish to escape the consequences of having to compete in the marketplace with foreign producers. When American steel producers have higher production costs per ton than their German, Japanese, Brazilian and South Korean rivals, it is easier to ask the U.S. government for protection from foreign competitors than to try to reduce their own high costs of production. Another reason for public support for protectionism is that many economists do not bother to answer either the special interests or those who oppose free trade for ideological reasons, since the arguments of both have essentially been refuted long ago and are now regarded in the economics profession as beneath contempt. But this has only allowed vehement and