by housing shortages, a reduction in the building of new housing, and a faster deterioration of existing housing as it receives less maintenance. It must be emphasized that these are empirical consequences, because Some people seem to think that the role of prices in the economy is simply a theory by those with "faith in the market." However, it was a Swedish socialist-presumably lacking such "faith" in the capitalist market-who said that . rent Control "appears to be the most efficient technique known to destroy a city-except for bombing." He was an economist familiar with the empirical evidence. Another comparison between bombing and rent control was made by an official of the Communist government of Vietnam, some years after the Vietnam war. "The Americans couldn't destroy Hanoi" by bombing it during the war, he said, "but we have destroyed our city by very low rents." As a Communist with no bias toward the free market, he had learned the hard way that artificially low rents encouraged demand while discouraging supply-a very simple principle, indeed, but one with major impacts on those who fail to heed it. While bombing does more immediate damage to a city, wars end and many cities have been rapidly rebuilt in the postwar world. Rent control does more long-lasting damage because most people do not understand the basic economics of it and that allows it to continue reducing the housing supply for decades. Economics was christened "the dismal science" precisely because its analysis frustrated so many hopes and desires. On the other hand, knowing what is not possible can spare us many disappointments and avoid many disasters. Because human beings can be as wrong in their pessimism as in their optimism, economics has also served to expose the fallacies of many doom-and gloom prophets. This will become especially apparent in Chapter 12, which includes an analysis of the economic reasons why so many predictions of natural resource exhaustion have repeatedly turned out to be so wrong, by such huge margins, for so many years or even generations. Incentives matter because most people will usually do more for their own benefit than for the benefit of others. Incentives link the two concerns together. A waitress brings food to your table, not because of your hunger, but because her salary and tips depend on it. In the absence of such incentives, service in restaurants in the Soviet Union was notoriously bad. Unsold goods piling up in warehouses were not the only consequences of a lack of a free market price system. Prices not only help determine which particular things are produced, they are also one of the ways of rationing the inherent scarcity of all goods and service. However, prices do not create that scarcity, which will require some form of rationing under any other economic system. Simple as all this may seem, it goes counter to many programs and policies designed to make various goods and services "affordable" or to keep them from becoming "prohibitively expensive." Being