was notoriously bad. Unsold goods piling up in warehouses were not the only consequences of a lack of a free market price system. Prices not only help determine which particular things are produced, they are also one of the ways of rationing the inherent scarcity of all goods and service. However, prices do not create that scarcity, which will require some form of rationing under any other economic system. Simple as all this may seem, it goes counter to many programs and policies designed to make various goods and services "affordable" or to keep them from becoming "prohibitively expensive." Being prohibitive is precisely how prices limit how much each person uses. If everything were made affordable by government decree, there would still not be any more to go around than when things were prohibitively expensive. There would simply have to be some alternative rationing method. Whether that method was through ration coupons, political influence, black markets, of just fighting over things when they go on sale, the rationing would still have to be done, since artificially making things affordable does not create any more total output. On the contrary, price "ceilings" tend to cause less to be produced. While scarcity is inherent, shortages are not. Scarcity simply means that there is not enough to satisfy everyone's desires completely. Only in the Garden of Eden was there enough to do that. A shortage, however, means that there are people who are Willing to pay the price of the product but are unable to find it. Price is an integral part of what a shortage is all about, even though many people mistakenly believe that there is a greater physical scarcity of goods during a shortage. However, as Sweden discovered, even the fastest rate of home-building in the world did not prevent an ever-worsening housing shortage, for the waiting list for housing grew faster, as rising incomes and the artificially low prices of housing under rent control caused many people to use more housing than they would have if they had had to pay the full value of the resources used in producing it. Many apparently humanitarian policies have backfired throughout history because of a failure to understand the role of prices. Attempts to keep food prices down by imposing price controls have led to hunger and even starvation, whether in seventeenth-century Italy, eighteenth-century India, France after the French Revolution, Russia after the Bolshevik revolution, or in a number of African countries after they obtained independence during the 1960s. Some of these African countries, like some of the countries in Eastern Europe, once had such an abundance of food that they were exporters of food before the era of price control and government planning turned them into countries unable to feed themselves. The motivation behind price controls on food may have been to make food affordable to the poor, but affordability did not mean any more food. In fact, it led to less food being available when the prices failed to repay