of physical stuff in the earth. But that assumption changes radically when you realize that statistics on "known reserves" of these resources may tell us more about the interest rate and the costs of exploration than about how much of the resource remains underground. Some communities may decide to restrict how tall local buildings will be allowed to be built, without any thought that this has economic implications which can result in much higher rents being charged. These are just some of a whole range of problems and issues which, on the surface, might not seem like economic matters, but which nevertheless look very different after understanding basic economic principles. One of the recurring themes in our consideration of various policies and institutions, in a diverse range of countries around the world, has been the distinction between the goals of these policies and institutions versus the incentives they create. The importance of that distinction extends beyond the particular things discussed in this book-and, indeed, beyond economics. Nothing is easier than to proclaim a wonderful goal. Legislation "to relieve the distress of the German people" gave dictatorial powers to Adolf Hitler, leading to more distress and disaster than the German people-and many other peoples-had ever experienced before. What must be asked about any goal is: What specific things are going to be done in the name of that goal? What does the particular legislation or policy reward and what does it punish? What constraints does it impose? Looking to the future, what are the likely consequences of such incentives and constraints? Looking back at the past, what have been the consequences of similar incentives and constraints in other times and places? As the distinguished British historian Paul Johnson put it: The study of history is a powerful antidote to contemporary arrogance. It is humbling to discover how many of our glib assumptions, which seem to us (1) 'For similar reasons, rent control tends to shift resources from the production of ordinary housing for ordinary people toward the production of luxury housing for the affluent and wealthy. novel and plausible, have been tested before, not once but many times and in innumerable guises; and discovered to be, at great human cost, wholly false. We have seen some of those great human costs-people going hungry in Russia, despite some of the richest farmland on the continent of Europe, people sleeping on cold sidewalks during winter nights in New York, despite far more boarded-up housing units in the city than it would take to shelter them all. A desperate government in eighteenth-century France decreed the death penalty for anyone who refused to accept the money that the revolutionary leaders had issued, in utter ignorance or disregard of economics. Some of the economic policies which have led to counterproductive or even catastrophic consequences in various countries and in various periods of history might suggest that there was unbelievable stupidity on the part of those making these decisions-which, in democratic countries, might also imply unbelievable stupidity