closes at 10,463 on a given day, that is the end result of a process of complex interactions among innumerable buyers and sellers of stocks, none of whom may have intended for the market to close at 10,463, even though it was their own actions in pursuit of other intentions which caused it to do so. While causation can sometimes be explained by intentional actions and sometimes by systemic interactions, too often the results of systemic interactions are falsely explained by individual intentions. Just as primitive peoples tended to attribute such things as the swaying of trees in the wind to some intentional action by an invisible spirit, rather than to such systemic causes as variations in atmospheric pressure, so there is a tendency toward intentional explanations of systemic events in the economy, when people are unaware of basic economic principles. While rising prices are likely to reflect changes in supply and demand, people ignorant of economics may attribute the rises to "greed". Such an intentional explanation raises more questions than it answers. For example, if greed is the explanation, why do prices vary so much from one time to another or from one place to another? Does greed vary that much and in the same pattern? In the Los Angeles basin, for example, homes near the ocean sell for much higher prices than similar homes located in the smoggy interior. Does this mean that fresh air promotes greed, while smog makes home sellers more reasonable? To say that prices are due to greed is to imply that sellers can set prices by an act of will. If so, no company would ever go bankrupt, since it could simply raise its prices to cover whatever its costs happened to be. But the systemic interactions of the marketplace through supply and demand force the high-cost company to keep its prices down to where their competitors' price are, thereby leading to losses and bankruptcy. Keeping their prices up would simply mean losses of sales and faster bankruptcy. People shocked by the high prices charged in stores in low-income neighborhoods have often been quick to blame greed or exploitation on the part of the people who run such businesses. Similarly when they notice the much higher interest rates charged by pawnbrokers and small finance companies which operate in low-income neighborhoods, as compared to the interest rates charged by banks in middle-class communities. Yet studies show that profit rates are generally no higher in inner city businesses than elsewhere, and the fact that many businesses are leaving such neighborhoods-and others, such as supermarket chains, are staying away-reinforces that conclusion. The painful fact that poor people end up paying more than affluent people for many goods and services has a very plain-and systemic-explanation. It often costs more to deliver goods and services in low-income neighborhoods. Higher insurance costs and higher costs for various security precautions, due to higher rates of crime and vandalism, are just some of systemic reasons that get ignored by those seeking