the standard of living of poor people. Antipathy toward "unearned incomes" has led to attempts to control or suppress profits in various countries at various periods of history, with the result of discouraging the investment of capital that those countries have desperately needed, in order to raise the standard of living of their people. In some cases, the more prosperous classes in these poor countries have invested their capital abroad, in richer industrial nations that do not tax or restrict capital so much-leading to international transfers of wealth from where it is most scarce to where it is most abundant, as a result of the domestic politics of envy and resentment, compounded by economic confusion. What can be seen physically is always more vivid than what cannot be. Those who watch a factory in operation can see the workers creating a product before their eyes. They cannot see the investment that made that factory possible in the first place, much less the thinking that went into assessing whether the market for the product was sufficient to justify the expense, or the analysis and trial-and-error experience that made possible the technology with which the workers are working or the vast amounts of knowledge and insights required to deal with ever-changing markets in an ever-changing economy and society. Ignoring or disregarding such things makes it possible to believe that only those currently handling tangible objects before our eyes are creating wealth and that any of that wealth which goes to others represents "exploitation" of r its real producers. Crude as such a conception may be, it has held a powerful ; Sway over numerous political leaders and their followers, in countries around the world. l Tanzania's legendary and charismatic leader Julius Nyerere, surveying with painful honesty his country's economic disasters under his socialist government, declared that at least he had prevented foreign capitalists from carrying away Tanzania's wealth for their own profit. Implicit in the fear of foreign "exploitation" is a vision of a zero-sum process, were one can gain only if others lose. Insupportable as such a vision would be if one paused to examine it, either logically or empirically, implicit assumptions survive precisely because they are not examined. The kinds of ideas about exploitation which Julius Nyerere exemplified in flea also long prevailed in Latin America. Under the influence of dependency theory," many Latin American nations restricted their economic transactions with wealthier industrial nations of North America and Western Europe, lest these capitalists exploit them. Only after many years of painful economic failures in trying to produce internally the goods which could have been bought more cheaply in the world market did Latin America's governments eventually abandon dependency theory and the self-destructive economic policies based on it. Perhaps even more remarkable, this theory eventually lost ground even among Latin American intellectuals. Yet what a price was paid in the meantime by those Latin American peoples whose standards of living were needlessly kept lower than they could have been with the