affluent counties with similar restrictive land use policies. By infringing or negating property rights, affluent and wealthy property owners are able to keep out people of average or low incomes and, at the same time, increase the value of their own property by ensuring its growing scarcity relative to increasing employment in the area. Some even acquire a sense of moral superiority in doing so, demonizing the intermediaries who seek to transfer land to new uses. "Developer" is as much of a dirty word among those protecting the status quo in California as "profits" were to India's socialist Prime Minister Nehru. While strict adherence to property rights would allow landlords to evict tenants at will, the economic incentives are for them to do just the opposite-to try to keep their apartments as fully rented and as continuously occupied as possible, so long as the tenants pay their rent and behave themselves. Only when rent control or other restrictions on their property rights are enacted are landlords likely to do otherwise. Under rent control and tenants rights laws, landlords have been known to try to harass tenants into leaving, whether in New York or in Hong Kong. Under stringent rent control and tenants rights laws in Hong Kong, landlords were known to sneak into their own buildings late at night to vandalize the premises, in order to make them less attractive or even unlivable, so that tenants would move out and the empty building could then be torn down legally, to be replaced by something more lucrative as commercial or industrial property. This of course was by no means the purpose or intention of those who had passed rent control laws in Hong Kong. But it illustrates again the importance of making a distinction between intentions and effects-and not just as regards property rights laws. In short, incentives matter and property rights need to be assessed economically in terms of the incentives created by their existence, their modifications, or their elimination. The powerful incentives created by a profit-and-loss economy depend on the profits being private property. When government-owned enterprises in the Soviet Union made profits, those profits were not their private property but belonged to "the people"-or, in more mundane terms, could be taken by the government for whatever purposes higher officials chose to spend them On. Soviet economists Schmelev and Popov pointed out and lamented the adverse effects of this on incentives: But what justifies confiscating the larger part-sometimes 90-95 percent-of enterprises' profits, as is being done in many sectors of the economy today? What political or economic right-ultimately what human right-do ministries have to do that? Once again we are taking away from those who work well in order to keep afloat those who do nothing. How can we possibly talk about independence, initiative, rewards for efficiency, quality, and technical progress? Of course, the country's leaders could continue to talk about such things, but destroying the incentives which exist under property rights meant that there was a reduced chance