of money to someone under given circumstances? And why does it pay for that person to accept the offer? 7. Why would a bus company owned or controlled by the government charge fares too low to replace existing buses as they wear out? What if the executives of a privately owned and privately controlled bus company decided to divert part of the money they received from bus fares toward paying themselves higher salaries, instead of setting aside enough money to replace buses as they wear out? What would happen to the value of the stock in their company and how would the stockholders be likely to react? 8. Many poor countries have confiscated businesses or land owned by wealthy foreign companies. Why has this seldom made the poor country more prosperous? 9. Those who favor increases in tax rates are often disappointed that the additional revenue turns out to be less than they expected. Conversely, those who fear that cuts in tax rates will substantially reduce the government's revenues have often been surprised to find the government's revenues rising. Explain why. 10. Why does it make sense for an individual driver to get insurance on his automobile? Why then doesn't Hertz buy insurance for its automobiles? PART V: THE NATIONAL ECONOMY 1. Does the presence or absence of property rights make any difference to people who own no property? For example, are tenants affected economically by whether the community in which they rent apartments or houses allows unbridled property rights or reduces those property rights through zoning laws, open space laws, height restrictions on buildings, or rent control laws? Explain how people who own no property are affected. 2. During the Great Depression of the 1930s, both Republican President Herbert Hoover and his successor, Democratic President Franklin D. Roosevelt, tried to keep up the prices of goods and labor. What was the economic problem with these policies? 3. During a period of inflation, does money circulate faster or slower-and why? What are the consequences? What do you suppose happens during a period of deflation-and what are the consequences then? 4. During an all-out war, how can a country's military plus civilian consumption add up to more than its output, without borrowing from other countries? 5. "Under both capitalism and socialism, the scarcity of knowledge is the same, but the way these different economies deal with it can be quite different." Explain. 6. "The nationalization of banks in India was not simply a matter of transferring ownership of an enterprise to the government. This transfer changed all the incentives and constraints from those of the marketplace to those of politics and bureaucracy." Explain what consequences followed and why. 7. Even if detailed statistics are available, why is it difficult to compare the national output at the beginning of the twentieth century with the national output at the beginning of the twenty-first century, and say by what percentage it has increased? Why is it hard even to say how much prices for