to another country. Like much zero-sum thinking, this depends on blindly disregarding the creation of wealth. Neither investors nor immigrants simply come into a country and share its pre-existing wealth. They create additional wealth. Part of this additional wealth goes to the population of the country to which they have moved and part goes to themselves and their families, wherever these might be located. But the host country population loses nothing on net balance and typically gains. If the kind of thinking which would lead people to believe otherwise seems primitive or illogical, that is not to say that it has not prevailed among peoples and rulers in many lands. Some poor nations in Asia, Africa, and Latin America have kept out foreign investments that were desperately needed, for fear of losing wealth that the foreigners would carry away. Accusations of exporting the host country's wealth were made against the overseas Chinese in Southeast Asia for generations, while in fact the Chinese were creating whole industries that never existed before in these countries and adding to their wealth. Zero-sum thinking and a disregard of the creation of wealth have often gone together in countries around the world. THE FALLACY OF COMPOSITION Just as the assumption of a zero-sum process may be implicit, rather than explicit, so is the assumption that what is true of a part is true of the whole that is, the fallacy of composition. The fallacy in the fallacy of composition comes from ignoring the interactions which prevent what is true of a part from automatically being true of the whole. Because a national economy involves many complex interactions among millions of individuals, businesses and other organizations, what is true for some of them need not be true for the economy as a whole. Not only may the fates of particular parts of an economy differ from the fate of the economy as a whole, to some extent it is inevitable that parts of the economy suffer from the progress of the whole. How are the new technologies, the new industries, and the new ways of distributing products to get the resources they need, except by taking capital, labor and other factors of production away from other parts of the economy? Automobiles, trucks, and tractors displaced horses from their historically large role in transportation and farming in twentieth century America, thereby freeing up all the resources required to feed and maintain vast numbers of horses. Workers were also displaced from agriculture as farming methods became more efficient. One of the key factors in the growth of industrial output during the twentieth century was the ever-growing availability of workers displaced from agriculture. How else could modern industries have gotten all the millions of workers needed to fill their factories, except by taking them from the farms? Those who lament the passing of the family farm often see no connection between that and the greater outpouring of goods and services from industry and commerce that created a rising standard