rising, corporate profits were down, and the total output of the American economy went down. The supposedly "good" news on international trade was due to reduced imports during shaky economic times. Had the country gone into a deep depression, the international trade balance might have disappeared completely, but fortunately Americans were spared that much "good" news. Just as the United States had a "favorable" balance of trade every year of the Great Depression of the 1930s, it became a record-breaking "debtor nation" during the booming prosperity of the 1990s. Obviously, such words cannot be taken at face value as indicators of the well-being of a country. We , will need to examine what they mean in context in this chapter and the next. THE BASIS FOR INTERNATIONAL TRADE While international trade takes place for the same reason that other trades take place-because both sides gain-it is necessary to understand just why both countries gain, especially since there are so many politicians and journalists who muddy the waters with claims to the contrary. The reasons why countries gain from international trade are usually grouped together by economists under three categories: absolute advantage, comparative advantage, and economies of scale. Absolute Advantage It is obvious why Americans buy bananas grown in the Caribbean. Bananas can be grown much more cheaply in the tropics than in places where greenhouses and other artificial means of maintaining warmth would be necessary. In tropical countries, nature provides free the warmth that people have to provide by costly means in cooler climates, such as that of the United States. Therefore it pays Americans to buy bananas grown in the tropics, rather than grow them at higher costs within the United States. Sometimes the advantages that one country has over another, or over the rest of the world, are extreme. Growing coffee, for example, requires a peculiar combination of climatic conditions-warm but not too hot, nor with sunlight beating down on the plants directly all day, nor with too much moisture or too little moisture, and in some kinds of soils but not others. Putting together these and other requirements for ideal coffee-growing conditions drastically reduces the number of places that are best suited for producing coffee. It has not been uncommon for more than half the coffee in the entire world to be grown in Brazil-and in just one region of Brazil, at that. This does not mean that other countries cannot grow coffee. It is just that the amount and quality of coffee that most countries could produce would not be worth the resources it would cost, when more and better coffee can be bought from Brazil at a lower cost. These are examples of what economists call "absolute advantage"-one country, for any of a number of reasons, can produce some things cheaper or better than another. Those reasons may be due to climate, geography, or the mixture of skills in their respective populations. Whatever the reason may be in each particular case, absolute advantage means that