goods and services purchased on credit by businesses and individuals alike produced debts that were now harder to payoff than when the credit was extended in an economy with a larger money supply. Those whose wages and salaries were specified in contracts-whether unionized workers or professional baseball players-were now legally entitled to more real purchasing power than when these contracts were originally signed. So were government employees, whose salary scales were fixed by law. But, while deflation benefited these particular groups if they kept their jobs, the difficulty of paying them meant that many would lose their jobs. Similarly, banks that owned the mortgages which many people were struggling to pay were benefited by receiving mortgage payments worth more purchasing power than before-if they received the payments at all. But so many people were unable to pay their debts that many banks began to fail. More than 9,000 banks suspended operations over a four year period from 1930 through 1933. Other creditors likewise lost money when debtors simply could not pay them. Just as inflation tends to be made worse by the fact that people spend a depreciating currency faster than usual, in order to buy something with it before it loses still more value, so a deflation tends to be made worse by the fact that people hold onto money longer, especially during a depression, with widespread unemployment making everyone's job or business insecure. Not only was there less money in circulation during the downturn in the economy from 1929 to 1932, what money there was circulated more slowly, which further reduced demand for goods and services-which in turn reduced demand for the labor. Theoretically, the government could have increased the money supply to bring the price level back up to where it had been before. The Federal Reserve System had been set up, nearly 20 years earlier during the Woodrow Wilson administration, to deal with changes in the nation's money supply. President Wilson explained that the Federal Reserve "provides a currency which expands as it is needed and contracts when it is not needed" and that "the powers to direct this system of credits is put into the hands of a public board of disinterested officers of the Government itself" to avoid control by bankers or other special interests. However, what a government can do theoretically is not necessarily the same as what it is likely to do politically or what its leaders understand intellectually. Both liberal and conservative economists, looking back on the Great Depression of the 1930s, have seen the Federal Reserve System's monetary policies during that period as confused and counterproductive. Milton Friedman called the people who ran the Federal Reserve System in those years "inept" and John Kenneth Galbraith called them a group with "startling incompetence." For example, the Federal Reserve raised the interest rate in 1931, as , the downturn in the economy was nearing the bottom, with businesses failing and banks collapsing all across the country, along with massive unemployment. Today, any