paid at a time when money was so scarce. Indeed, White Castle expanded during the Depression. It was almost ideally adapted to the world in which it existed. But it lost its unchallenged leadership of the industry and began a decline into obscurity when the economy and society changed around its restaurants in the middle of the twentieth century. As middle-class and even working class people became more prosperous, acquired automobiles, and moved out of the central cities into the suburbs, reducing population densities in the cities, White Castle could no longer count on the heavy urban pedestrian traffic on which it had thrived. Its conservative financing policies meant that it could not expand as rapidly into the suburbs as other businesses which went into debt to do so, or raised capital by requiring their franchisees to put up part of the money needed. The rising crime and violence of the central cities in the 1960s were more of a problem for White Castle than for other hamburger chains located in suburban shopping malls. Staying open all night in low-income urban neighborhoods was no longer safe, financially or otherwise. At the heart of the changed environment for fast-food chains was the automobile. Unlike White Castle, McDonald's did not have to adapt to the world of the automobile, because McDonald's began in that part of the country where automobile ownership was most widespread-southern California-and was geared to that environment from the beginning. As automobile ownership and suburbanization spread across the country, so did McDonald's. By 1988, half of McDonald's sales in America were made at drive-through windows, which were capable of handling a car every 25 seconds, or well over a hundred per hour. As with the supermarkets, this high turnover represented extremely low costs of selling, enabling prices to be kept down to levels that were highly competitive. Drive-through restaurants in general require far less land per customer served than does a sit-down restaurant. This of course lowers the cost of doing business. Such economies enable prices to be kept down, while competition forces them to be kept down. Just as neighborhood grocery stores, catering to pedestrian customers in central cities during the pre-World War II era, were eclipsed in the postwar world by suburban supermarkets serving customers coming from miles around in their cars, so local fast food restaurants serving customers walking in off the street were surpassed-and often forced out of business-by competition from drive-in fast food restaurants, serving people arriving in automobiles. Although at one time there were hundreds of White Castle hamburger restaurants and only one restaurant operated by the McDonald brothers, by 1996 White Castles sales were just one percent of McDonald's. In a society that is constantly evolving, the conditions surrounding a given company or industry are always changing, and not all business leaders are equally quick to spot the changes or grasp their implications. For example, the changing age-structure of the American population created a huge market for hamburgers as the baby boom