University, which was already more than 150 years old at the time. It was only in the postwar era, with racial attitudes beginning to change in the wake of the horrors of the Nazi Holocaust, that either blacks or Jews began to have more widespread access to positions in non-profit organizations. None of this should suggest that non-profit organizations are oblivious to money. It is just that the purposes for which the money is spent may be quite different from the purposes for which it was donated. Non-profit organizations can be very eager to get more money, and some even skirt the boundaries of the law to do so. In 1999, for example, non-profit organizations took in about $500 million from sellers of commercial products who were allowed to say or suggest in their advertisements that some foundation or other nonprofit organization was favorable toward these products. Commercial endorsements by these tax-exempt organizations are illegal, but denials that these commercial tie-ins were endorsements have usually kept law enforcement officials at bay. The American Medical Association, for example, collected $600,000 for allowing its logo to be displayed in advertisements for a pharmaceutical drug. Another non-profit organization, The American Cancer Society, pulled in more than a million dollars the same year for allowing the use of its name and logo in advertisements for commercial products, even though it claims that it does not endorse anything. Looked at from the other side, American Express has paid hundreds of millions of dollars to a variety of non-profit organizations for advertising tie-ins. The fact that some organizations' income is called profit and other organizations' income is not does not change anything economically, however much it may suggest to the unwary that one institution is greedy and the other is not. Many heads of non-profit organizations receive far more money in salary than the average owner of a store or a restaurant receives in profits. It is not uncommon for presidents of leading American universities to receive more than half a million dollars a year in income-and for college football coaches to receive even more. What changes incentives and constraints is the fact that the money received by a profit-and-loss business comes directly from those who use its goods and services, while the money received by a non-profit organization Comes primarily from subsidized beneficiaries, from donors and-indirectly-from the taxpayers who pay the additional taxes made necessary by the tax exemptions of non-profit organizations. That gives the managers of non-profit organization far more room to do what they want, rather than what either the public wants or what their deceased donors wanted when these organizations were set up. The fact that a non-profit organization can provide its services free or below cost virtually assures a market for its output, without being forced to produce that output at the lowest cost. Indeed, the very nature of the output itself can be changed to meet the preferences of the non-profit officials, among other indulgences that are possible with money