represent a few dozen jobs here and there in innumerable businesses scattered across the nation, there is not enough concentration of economic interest and political clout in anyone place to make it worthwhile to mount a comparable counter-campaign. Therefore laws are often passed restricting international trade for the benefit of some concentrated and vocal constituency, even though these restrictions may cause far more losses of jobs nationwide. Chapter 20 International Transfers of Wealth Transfers of wealth among nations take many forms. Individuals and businesses in one country may simply invest directly in the business enterprises of another country. Alternatively, they may put their money in another country's banks, which will in turn makes loans to individuals and enterprises, so that this is indirect foreign investment. Yet another option is to buy the bonds issued by a foreign government. In addition to investments of various kinds, there are remittances from people living in foreign countries back to family members in their countries of origin. In 2001, for example, more than $9 billion in remittances were sent back to Mexico from the United States and more than $23 billion was sent back to Latin America and the Caribbean as a whole. Nor is this a new phenomenon. Back in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, remittance from Chinese immigrants in the United States made the localities from which they had come in China visibly more prosperous than other regions. Similarly, remittances from Japanese Americans during that same era helped build up Hiroshima to the point where it became a major industrial center and therefore a military target for the first atomic bomb. In centuries past, imperial powers simply transferred vast amounts of Wealth from the nations they conquered. Alexander the Great looted the treasures of the conquered Persians. Spain took gold and silver by the ton from the conquered indigenous peoples of the Western Hemisphere and forced some of these indigenous peoples into mines to dig up more. Julius Caesar was one of many Roman conquerors to march in triumph through the eternal city, displaying the riches and slaves he was bringing back from his victories abroad. In more recent times, both prosperous nations and international agencies have transferred part of their wealth to poorer countries under the general heading of "foreign aid." None of this is very complicated-so long as we remember Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes' admonition to "think things instead of words." When it comes to international trade and international transfers of wealth, the things are relatively straightforward, but the words are often slippery and misleading. INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS Theoretically, investments might be expected to flow from where capital is abundant to where it is in short supply, much like water seeking its own level. In a perfect world, wealthy nations would invest much of their capital in poorer nations, where capital is more scarce and would therefore offer a higher rate of return. However, in the highly imperfect world that we live in, that is by no means what usually