spending and investing at full capacity, so cutbacks in production and employment may follow until things sort themselves out. How such situations come about, how long it will take for things to sort themselves out, and what policies are best to cope with these problems are all things on which different schools of economists may disagree. However, what economists in general agree on is that this situation is very different from the situation feared by those who foresaw a national economy glutted by its own growing abundance because people lack the income to buy it all. MEASURING NATIONAL OUTPUT The distinction between income and wealth that was made when discussing individuals in Chapter 9 applies also when discussing the income and wealth of the nation as a whole. A country's total wealth includes everything it has left from the past plus everything currently being produced. National output, however, is what is produced during a given year. Both are important in different ways for indicating how much is available for different purposes, such as maintaining or improving the people's standard of living, or for carrying Out the functions of government, business, government or other institutions. National output during a year can be measured in a number of ways. The most common measure today is the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), which is the sum total of everything produced within a nation's borders. An older and related measure, the Gross National Product (GNP) is the sum total of all the goods and services produced by the country's people, wherever they or their resources may be located. These two measures of national output are sufficiently similar that people who are not economists need not bother about the differences. For the United States, the difference between GDP and GNP is less than one percent. The real distinction that must be made is between both these measures of national output during a given year--a flow of real income-versus the accumulated stock of wealth as of a given time. For example, at any given time, a country can live beyond its current production by using up part of its accumulated stock of wealth from the past. During World War II, for example, American production of automobiles stopped, so that factories which normally produced cars could instead produce tanks, planes and other military equipment. This meant that existing cars simply deteriorated, as did most refrigerators, apartment buildings and other parts of the national stock of wealth. Wartime government posters said: Use it up, Wear it out, Make it do, Or do without. After the war was over, there was a tremendous increase in the production of cars, refrigerators, housing, and other parts of the nation's accumulated stock of wealth which had been allowed to wear down or wear out while production was being devoted to urgent wartime purposes. Both the fixed assets of businesses and the durable equipment of consumers grew much faster between 1947 and 1973 than they had during earlier or later decades of the twentieth