the relative values of various national currencies are "strong" and "weak." Thus, when the Euro was first introduced as a monetary unit in the European Union countries, its value fell from $1.18 to 83 cents and it was said to be "weakening" relative to the dollar. Later it rose again, to reach $1.16 in early 2003, and was then said to be "strengthening." Words can be harmless if we understand what they do and don't mean, but misleading if we take their connotations at face value. One thing that a "strong" currency does not mean is that the economies that use that currency are necessarily better off Sometimes it means the opposite. A "strong" currency means that the prices of exports from countries that use that currency have risen in price to people in other countries. Thus the rise in value of the Euro in 2003 has been blamed by a number of European corporations for falling exports to the United States, as the prices of their products rose in dollars, causing fewer Americans to buy them. Meanwhile, the "weakening" of Britain's pound sterling had opposite effects. Business Week magazine reported: Britain's hard-pressed manufacturers love a falling pound. So they have warmly welcomed the 11% slide in sterling's exchange rate against the Euro over the past year. . . . As the pound weakens against the euro, it makes British goods more competitive on the Continent, which is by far their largest export market. And it boosts corporate profits when earnings from the euro zone are converted into sterling. Just as a "strong" currency is not always good, it is not always bad either. In the countries that use the Euro, businesses that borrow from Americans find the burden of that debt to be less and easier to repay when fewer Euros are needed to repay dollars. When Norway's krona rose in value relative to Sweden's krone, Norwegians living near the border of Sweden crossed over and saved 40 percent buying a load of groceries in Sweden. The point here is simply that words like "strong" and "weak" currencies by themselves tell us little about the economic realities, which have to be looked at directly . and specifically, rather than by relying on the emotional connotations of words. ZERO-SUM THINKING companies will invest in the Third World and fewer Third World workers will have jobs. Since multinational corporations typically pay about double the local wages in poor countries, the loss of these jobs is likely to translate into more hardship for Third World workers, even as their would-be benefactors in the West congratulate themselves on having ended "exploitation." Lurking in the background of much confused thinking about international trade and international transfers of wealth is an implicit assumption of a zero-sum contest, where some can gain only if others lose. Thus, for example, some have claimed that multinational corporations profit by "exploiting" workers in the Third World. If so, it is hard to explain why the vast majority of American