many other statistics, fluctuate over time. That makes it possible to say that the trends are going up or down, depending on which point in these fluctuations you choose as the base year from which to begin counting. Even in the absence of deliberate manipulation of trend data, honest confusion can lead to false conclusion. One of the first things taught in introductory statistics is that correlation is not causation. Unfortunately, it may also be one of the first things forgotten. In some countries, especially in the Third World, so much economic activity takes place "off the books" that official data on national output miss much-if not most-of the goods and services produced in the economy. In all countries, work done domestically and not paid for in wages and salary cooking food, raising children, cleaning the home-goes uncounted. This inaccuracy does not directly affect trends over time if the same percentage of economic activity goes uncounted in one era as in another. In reality, however, domestic economic activities have undergone major changes over time and vary greatly from one society to another. For example, as more women have entered the work force, many of the domestic chores formerly performed by wives and mothers without generating any income statistics are now performed for money by child care centers, home cleaning services and restaurants or pizza-delivery companies. Because money now formally changes hands in the marketplace, rather than informally between husband and wife in the home, 1 to day's statistics count as output things that did not get counted before. This means that national output trends reflect not only real increases in the goods and service being produced, but also the counting of things that were not counted before, even though they existed before. The longer the time period being considered, the more the shifting of economic activities from the home to the marketplace makes the statistics not comparable. In centuries past, it was common for a family's food to be grown in its own garden or on its own farm, and this food was often preserved in jars by the family rather than being bought from stores where it was preserved in cans. Clothing was often home-made, as were some items of furniture and even wine might be fermented from the fruits grown by the family. In pioneering times in America, or in some Third World countries today, the home itself might have been constructed by the family or with the help of friends and neighbors. As these activities moved from the family to the market I In times past, it was common in many working-class communities around the world for the husband to turn most of his pay over to his wife to spend for the family's needs, including her own. This pattern remained widespread in Japan at the end of the twentieth century. But such transactions went unrecorded. place, the money paid for them made them part of official statistics. This makes it harder to know how much of