in socialist countries, according to theory, and the standard of living of the masses correspondingly higher. Why then was it not that way in practice? Profits as Incentives Let us go back to square one. The hope for profits and the threat of losses is what forces a business owner in a capitalist economy to produce at the lowest cost and sell what the customers are most willing to pay for. In the absence of these pressures, those who manage enterprises under socialism have far less incentive to be as efficient as possible under given conditions, much less to keep up with changing conditions and respond to them quickly, as capitalist enterprises must do if they expect to survive. It was a Soviet premier who said that his country's enterprise managers shied away from innovation "as the devil shies away from incense." But, given the incentives of a socialist economy, why should these managers have stuck their necks out by trying new methods or new products, when they stood to gain little or nothing if they succeeded and might have lost their jobs (or worse) if they failed? Under Stalin, failure was often equated with sabotage, and was punished accordingly. Even under the milder conditions of democratic socialism, as in India for decades after its independence, innovation was by no means necessary for protected enterprises, such as automobile manufacturing. Until the freeing up of markets that began in India in 1991, the country's most popular car was the Hindustan Ambassador--an unabashed copy of the British Morris Oxford. Moreover, even in the 1990s, The Economist reported that "the Ambassador is a 1954 Morris Oxford and unashamedly so." The magazine observed: "The Research and Development department of Hindustan Motor Corporation, Calcutta, employs no fewer than 250 people. Quite what they have been doing over the past 25 years is anyone's guess." A London newspaper, The Independent, reported: "Ambassadors have for years been notorious in India for their poor finish, heavy handling and proneness to alarming accidents." Nevertheless, there was a waiting list for the Ambassador-with waits lasting for months and sometimes years-as foreign cars were not allowed to be imported to compete with them. Under capitalism, the incentives work in the opposite direction. Even the most profitable business can lose its market if it doesn't keep innovating, in order to avoid being overtaken by its competitors. For example, in the 1970s IBM computers measuring 3,000 cubic feet became obsolete when Intel created a chip smaller than a fingernail that could do the same things. Yet Intel itself was then constantly forced to improve that chip at an exponential rate, as rivals like Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), Cyrix, and others began catching up with them technologically. More than once, Intel poured such huge sums of money into the development of improved chips as to risk the financial survival of the company itself But the alternative was to allow itself to be overtaken by rivals, which would have been an even bigger risk to