that economics is the study of scarce resources which have alternative uses. The alternative uses of American labor are too valuable for it to be used keeping ten-year-old cars repaired-except for those Americans wealthy enough to be able to indulge a hobby of collecting vintage automobiles or those poor enough that the alternative uses of their time are not very remunerative and they are unable to afford a new car. By and large, it pays Americans to junk their cars, refrigerators, and other capital equipment in a shorter time than it would pay people in poorer countries to do so. Nor is this a matter of being able to afford "waste." It would be a waste to keep repairing this equipment, when the same efforts elsewhere in the American economy would produce more than enough wealth to buy replacements. But it would not make sense for poorer countries, whose alternative uses of time are not as productive, to junk their equipment at the same times when American junk theirs. Accordingly, many older American cars, planes, and sewing machines may be bought second-hand and then used for years longer in Third World countries after they have been junked in the United States. This can be an efficient way of handling the situation for both kinds of countries. A book by two Soviet economists pointed out that in the U.S.S.R. "equipment is endlessly repaired and patched up," so that the "average life of capital stock in the U.S.S.R. is forty-seven years, as against seventeen in the United States. They were not bragging. They were complaining. Chapter 10 Controlled Labor Markets Just as inanimate resources and their resulting products can have their prices set either by free competition or by monopolies, so people's pay and employment conditions mayor may not be a result of free market competition. Pay or working conditions may be controlled by law, custom, or organizations of employers or employees, as well as by the government. Among the major factors behind such controls have been desires for job security and for collectively-set limits on how high or how low pay scales will be allowed to go in particular occupations or industries. Here as elsewhere, we are concerned not so much with the goals or rationales of such policies, but with the incentives created by these arrangements and the consequences to which such incentives lead. These consequences extend beyond the workers themselves to the economy as a whole, where labor is one of the scarce resources which have alternative uses. JOB SECURITY Virtually every modern industrial nation has faced issues of job security, whether they have faced these issues realistically or unrealistically, successfully or unsuccessfully. At the most simplistic level, some people advocate that every worker be guaranteed a job, with the government if necessary. In some countries, laws make it difficult and costly for a private employer to fire , anyone. Labor unions try to do this in many industries and in many countries around the world. Teachers' unions in