F. Love, McDonald: Behind the Arches. All economies-whether capitalism, socialism, feudalism or whatever--are essentially ways of cooperating in the production and distribution of goods and services, whether this is done efficiently or inefficiently, voluntarily or involuntarily. Naturally, individuals and groups want their own particular contributions to the process to be better rewarded, but their complaints or struggles over this are a sideshow to the main event of complementary efforts which produce the output on which all depend. Yet invidious comparisons and internecine struggles are the stuff of social melodrama, which in turn is the lifeblood of the media and politics, as well as for portions of the intelligentsia. By portraying cooperative activities as if they were zero-sum contests whether in employer-employee relations or in international trade or other cooperative endeavors-those with the power to impose their misconceptions on others through words or laws can create a negative-sum contest, in which all are worse off A young worker who is destitute of both knowledge and money would today find it virtually impossible to purchase the knowledge that was vital to a future career by working long hours for no pay, as many did it times past-including F. W. Woolworth, who by this means rose from poverty to become one of the richest man of his times in retailing. Those with a zero-sum vision who have seen property rights as mere special privileges for the affluent and the rich have helped erode or destroy such rights, or have made them practically inaccessible to the poor in Third World countries, thereby depriving the poor of one of the mechanisms by which people from backgrounds like theirs have risen to prosperity in other times and places. However useful economics may be for understanding many issues, it is not as emotionally satisfying as more personal and melodramatic depictions of these issues often found in the media and in politics. Dry empirical questions are seldom as exciting as political crusades or moral pronouncements. But they are questions that must be asked, if we are truly interested in the wellbeing of others, rather than in excitement or a sense of moral superiority for ourselves. Perhaps the most important distinction is between what sounds good and what works. The former may be sufficient for purposes of politics or moral preening, but not for the economic advancement of people in general or the poor in particular. For those who are willing to stop and think, basic economics provides some tools for evaluating policies and proposals in terms of their logical implications and empirical consequences. If this book has contributed to that end, then it has succeeded in its mission. QUESTIONS PART I: PRICES AND MARKETS growing scarcity? Explain with examples. 1 Can a decision be economic, if there is no money involved? Why or why not? 2 Can there be surplus food in a society where people are hungry? Explain why or why not. 3 When a country goes from having a housing shortage to having a housing surplus,