countries which have long been food exporters often begin to have difficulty feeding themselves after the government has taken control of agriculture. This has happened repeatedly over the centuries and in many countries, among people of every race, and under governments ranging from democracies to totalitarian dictatorships. Even the centrally planned economies of the Soviet Union and the Soviet bloc in Eastern Europe ended up having to allow a larger role for individual farming decisions, made by farmers guided by prices and sales, than they would permit in industry. Nevertheless, they did not permit a fully free market in agriculture and so ended up repeatedly being forced to import large amounts of food to feed their populations. Ironically, many of these countries in the Soviet bloc, including Russia and the Ukraine, had been large exporters of food for centuries before the Communists took power and took control of agriculture. In the last peacetime year of the czarist regime, 1913, Russia exported more than 9 million tons of grain. While central planning has an unimpressive record in industry as well, the fact that its agricultural failures are usually far worse, and more often catastrophic, suggests the crucial role of knowledge. Industrial products and industrial! production processes have a far greater degree of uniformity than is found in agriculture. Orders from Moscow on how to make steel in Vladivostok had more chances of achieving their goal than orders from Moscow on how to grow carrots or strawberries in Vladivostok. One of the most dangerous powers of any government, democratic or despotic, is the power to foreclose knowledge from affecting decisions. Given that most specific knowledge is widely scattered in fragments among vast numbers of human beings, decisions made by any manageably small number of government planners is likely to be based on far less knowledge than is available in the society as a whole. Yet, once the government's decisions have been turned into laws and policies, it no longer matters whether the beliefs on which they were based are true or false. Power trumps truth. The economic history of the Soviet Union is a monument to counterproductive policies behind widespread poverty in one of the most richly endowed countries on the face of the earth. While many examples of the difficulties faced by government planning of economic activity have come from the Soviet Union, similar results have marked the history of similar efforts in other countries. One of the classic disasters of government planning involved the British government's attempts to grow peanuts in colonial Rhodesia after World War II. Yet ordinary farmers around the world had been deciding for generations where and how to grow peanuts, each on his own particular land, whose individual characteristics were known directly from personal experience. Even a single acre of land usually has variations in its chemical composition and its slope, which determines how water runs off after a rainfall, and may vary as well in the degree to which is it shaded by trees, hills,