left hand is doing. General Motors is the largest manufacturer of automobiles in the world, but its cost of production per car is estimated to be hundreds of dollars more than the costs of Ford, Daimler Chrysler, or leading Japanese manufacturers. A small airline in the United States, Jetblue, has more than 30 percent lower cost per seat per mile than giants like United Airlines or American Airlines. Problems associated with size can affect quality as well as price. When frequent fliers and travel professionals were asked by Business Week magazine to rank the quality of airlines, the five top-rated in quality were all smaller airlines. In short, while there are economies of scale, there are also what economists call "diseconomies of scale." Economies and diseconomies exist simultaneously at many different levels of output. That is, there may be things that a given business enterprise could do better if it were larger and other things that it could do better if it were smaller. As an entrepreneur in India put it, "What small companies give up in terms of financial clout, technological resources, and staying power, they gain in flexibility, lack of bureaucracy, and speed of decision-making." With increasing size, eventually the diseconomies begin to outweigh the economies, so it does not pay a firm to expand beyond that point. That is why industries usually consist of many firms, instead of one giant, super-efficient monopoly. Diseconomies of Scale In the Soviet Union, where there was a fascination with economies of scale and a disregard of diseconomies of scale, both the industrial and agricultural enterprises of the U.S.S.R. were the largest in the world. The average Soviet farm, for example, was ten times the size of the average American farm and employed more than ten times as many workers. But Soviet farms were notoriously inefficient. Among the reasons for this inefficiency cited by Soviet economists was "deficient coordination." One example may illustrate a general problem: In the vast common fields, fleets of tractors fanned out to begin the plowing. Plan fulfillment was calculated on the basis of hectares worked, and so it was to the driver's advantage to cover as much territory as quickly as possible. The drivers started by cutting deep furrows around the edge of the field. As they moved deeper into the fields, however, they began to lift the blade of the plow and race the tractor, and the furrows became progressively shallower. The first furrow were nine to ten inches deep. A little farther from the road, they were five to six inches deep, and in the center of the field, where the tractor drivers were certain that no-one would check on them, the furrows were as little as two inches deep. Usually, no one discovered that the furrows were so shallow in the middle of the field until it became obvious that some thing was wrong from the stunted nature of the crop. Once again, counterproductive behavior from the standpoint of the economy was not irrational