Even aside from the human factor, the sheer magnitude of payments for work dwarfs payments for all other resources. Employee earnings are the largest category of income in the American economy, constituting about 80 percent of national income for decades on end. This is not uncommon in modern industrial economies. Because wages and salaries are so important in the lives of most individuals, there is a tendency to look at income solely from the standpoint of the individuals receiving it. However, this overlooks the important role of the price of labor in allocating resources in ways which determine the standard of living in the society as a whole. Looking at income solely from the standpoint of individual recipients also tends to portray the economy as a zero sum game, in which what is gained by some is lost by others. But there would obviously never have been the great rises in the general standard of living which have occurred over the years and generations if that were true. THE MYSTIQUE OF "LABOR" In various forms, the idea has persisted for centuries that labor is what "really" creates the output that we all live on and enjoy. In this view, it is the farmers who feed us and the factory workers who clothe us and provide us with furniture and television sets, while a variety of other workers build the homes we live in and produce the clothes we wear. Karl Marx took this vision to its logical conclusion by depicting capitalists, landlords and investors as people who, in one way or another, were enabled by the institutions of capitalism to take away much of what labor had created-that is, to "exploit" labor. Echoes of this vision can still be found today, not only among a relative handful of Marxists but also among non-Marxists or even anti-Marxists, who use such terms as "unearned income" to describe profits, interest, rent and dividends. This view that there is something special about labor as a source of output, and of the value of individual commodities, existed before Marx was born and not only among radicals, but even among such orthodox economists as Adam Smith, the father of laissez-faire economics. The first sentence of Smith's classic The Wealth of Nations says: "The annual labor of every nation is the fund which originally supplies it with all the necessaries and conveniences of life which it annually consumes, and which consist always either in the immediate produce of that labor, or in what is purchased with that produce from other nations." By the late nineteenth century, however, economists had given up the notion that it is primarily labor which determines the value of goods, since capital, management and natural resources all contribute to output and must be paid for from the price of that output, if these inputs into production are to continue to be supplied. More fundamentally, labor, like all other sources of production costs, was no longer seen as a source of value. On the