involved. The cost of watching a television sitcom or soap opera is the value of the other things that could have been done with that same time. Different economic systems deal with this underlying reality in different ways and with different degrees of efficiency, but the underlying reality exists independently of whatever particular economic system is used. Once we recognize that, we can then compare how economic systems which use prices to force people to share scarce resources among themselves differ in efficiency from economic systems which determine such things by having kings, politicians or bureaucrats issues orders saying who can get how much of what. During the brief era of glasnost (openness) and perestroika (restructuring) . in the last years of the Soviet Union, two Soviet economists named Nikolai Shmelev and Vladimir Popov wrote a book giving a very candid account of how their economy worked and this book was later translated into English. As Shmelev and Popov put it, production enterprises in the U.S.S.R. "always ask for more than they need" in the way of raw materials, equipment, and other resources used in production. "They take everything they can get, regardless of how much they actually need, and don't worry about economizing on materials," according to these economists. "After all, nobody 'at the top' knows exactly what the real requirements are," so "squandering" makes , sense. Among the resources that get squandered are workers. These economists reported that "from 5 to 15 percent of the workers in the majority of enterprises are surplus and are kept 'just in case.' The consequence was that far more resources were used to produce a given amount of output in the Soviet economy as compared to a price-coordinated economic system, such as that in the United States. Citing official Soviet statistics, the Soviet economists lamented: According to the calculations of the Soviet Institute of World Economy and International Relations, we use 1.5 times more materials and 2.1 times more energy per unit of national income than the United States. . . . We use 2.4 times more metal per unit of national income than the U.S. This correlation is apparent even without special calculations: we produce and consume 1.5 to 2 times more steel and cement than the United States, but we lag behind by at least half in production of items derived from them. . . . Recently, in Soviet industry the consumption of electrical energy exceeded the American level, but the volume of industrial output in the U.S.S.R. is-by the most generous estimates-only 80 percent of the American level. The Soviet Union did not lack for resources, but was in fact one of the most richly endowed nations on earth-if not the most richly endowed. What it lacked was an economic system that made efficient use of scarce resources. Because Soviet enterprises were not under the same financial constraints as capitalist enterprises, they acquired more machines than they needed, "which then gather dust in warehouses or rust out of doors,"