visible, or as vocal. Economists have long blamed international trade restrictions around the world for needlessly prolonging the worldwide depression of the 1930s. But not only do economist have relatively few votes, many voters know little about economics. Many disastrous policies in many places and times have resulted from these two facts. "Infant Industries" One of the arguments for international trade restrictions that economists have long recognized as valid, in theory at least, is that of protecting "infant industries" temporarily until they can develop the skill and experience necessary to compete with long-established foreign competitors. Once this point is reached, the protection (whether tariffs, import quotas, or whatever) can be taken away and the industry allowed to stand or fall in the competition of the marketplace. In practice, however, a new industry in its infancy seldom has enough political muscle-employees' votes, employers' campaign contributions, local governments dependent on their taxes-to get protection from foreign competition. On the other hand, an old, inefficient industry that has seen better days may well have some political muscle left and obtain enough protectionist legislation or subsidies from the government to preserve itself from extinction at the expense of the consumers, the taxpayers, or both. National Defense Even the greatest advocates of free trade are unlikely to want to depend on imports of military equipment and supplies from nations that could turn out at some future time to be enemy nations. Therefore domestic supplies of munitions and weapons of war have been supported in one way or another, in order to assure that those suppliers will be available in the event that they are needed to provide whatever is required for national defense. One of the rare cases in history where a people did depend on potential enemies for military supplies occurred in colonial America, where the indigenous American Indians obtained guns and ammunition from the European settlers. When warfare broke out between them, the Indians could win most of the battles and yet lose the war when they began to run out of bullets, which were available only from the white settlers. Since guns and bullets were products of European civilization, the Indians had no choice but to rely on that source. But countries that do have a choice almost invariably prefer having their own domestic suppliers of the things that are essential to their Own national survival. Unfortunately, the term "essential to national defense" can be-and has been-stretched to include products only tangentially related to military necessity. Such products can acquire protection from international competition under a national defense label for purely self-serving reasons. In short, while the argument for international trade restrictions for the sake of national defense can be valid, whether it is or is not valid for a particular industry in a particular country at a particular time depends on the actual circumstances of that industry, that country, and that time. "Dumping" A. Common argument for government protection against a competitor in other countries is that the latter is not