that one system involves each individual making choices for himself or herself, while the other system involves a smaller number of people making choices for millions of others. The mechanisms of the market are impersonal but the choices made by individuals are as personal as choices made anywhere else. It may be fashionable for journalists to refer to "the whim of the marketplace," as if that were something different from the desires of people, just as it was once fashionable to refer to "production for use, rather than profit"as if profits could be made by producing things that people cannot use or do not want to use. The real contrast is between choices made by individuals for themselves and choices made for them by others who presume to define what these individuals "really" need. SCARCITY AND COMPETITION Scarcity means that everyone's desires cannot be satisfied completely, regardless of which particular economic system or economic policy we choose-and regardless of whether an individual or a society is poor or affluent. Therefore competition among people for these resources is inherent. It is not a question whether we like or dislike competition. Scarcity means that we do not have the option to choose whether or not to have an economy in which people compete. That is the only kind of economy that is possible-and our only choice is among the particular methods that can be used " for this competition. Economic Institutions One way in which competition for scarce resources might take place would be for those who hold political power to decide how resources should be allocated to different uses and shared among different people. This has happened in ancient despotisms and under modern communism. Conceivably, the people themselves might decide voluntarily how to share things, as in some tribal societies or in an Israeli kibbutz, though it is hard to imagine how that could happen in societies consisting of millions of people. Yet another method of sharing resources among competing uses and competing individuals is by having them bid for these resources and the products resulting from them. In this system-a price-coordinated economy-those who want to use wood to produce furniture must bid against those who want to use it to produce paper, houses, or baseball bats. Those who want to use milk to produce cheese must bid against those who want to use it to produce yogurt or ice cream. Most people may be unaware that they are competing and simply see themselves as deciding how much of various things to buy at whatever prices they find, but scarcity ensures that they are competing with others, even if they are conscious only of weighing their own purchasing decisions against the amount of money they have available. One of the incidental benefits of competing and sharing through prices is that different people are not as likely to think of themselves as rivals, nor to develop the kinds of hostility that rivalry can breed. For example, much the same labor and construction