they can be. In Britain, for example, ponds or lakes are often privately owned, and these owners have every incentive to keep them from becoming polluted, since a clean body of water is more attractive to fishermen or boaters who pay for its use. Similarly with shopping malls: Although maintaining clean, attractive malls with benches, rest rooms and security personnel costs money that the mall owners do not collect from the shoppers, a mall with such things attracts more customers, and so the rents charged the individual store owners can be higher because a location in such malls is more valuable than in a mall without such amenities. In short, while externalities are a serious consideration in determining the role of government, they do not simply provide a blanket justification or a magic word which automatically allows economics to be ignored and politically attractive goals to be pursued without further ado. Both the incentives of the market and the incentives of politics must be weighed when choosing between them on any particular issue. Just as we must keep in mind a sharp distinction between the goals of a particular policy and the actual consequences of that policy, so we must keep in mind a sharp distinction between the purpose for which a particular governmental power was created and the purposes for which that power can be used. For example, President Franklin D. Roosevelt took the United States off the gold standard in 1933 under presidential powers created during the First World War to prevent trading with enemy nations. Though that war had been over for more than a dozen years and we no longer had any enemy nations, the power was still there to be used for wholly different purposes. Powers do not expire when the crises that created them have passed. Nor does the repeal of old laws have a high priority among legislators. Still less are institutions likely to close up on their own when the circumstances that caused them to be created no longer exist. For example, during the depths of the Great Depression of the 1930s, when money was in short supply, the Reconstruction Finance Corporation was created to lend money to American banks and businesses, in order to try to maintain production and employment. Yet the RFC continued in existence for years after the depression was history and the economy was going through a boom, with money in such abundant supply as to create inflation. When the RFC was finally closed down by Congress in 1953, the blow was softened politically by creating a "temporary" agency called the Small Business Administration to do some of the things that the RFC had been doing, but only for small and presumably struggling enterprises. Just a few years later, however, the SBA was made permanent--and then grew by leaps and bounds in the decades ahead. Despite its rationale of helping small "mom and pop" businesses, SBNs loans seldom went to such businesses and in fact concentrated on businesses