called the American Dream, dramatic social mobility has not been confined to the United States. Despite India's reputation as a rigid, caste-ridden society, it has likewise had its rags-to riches stories, especially as more free markets emerged toward the end of the twentieth century. Dhiruhai Ambani, for example, was born in poverty and was able to go as far as high school only because he was admitted as a "free student"-and he was too poor to continue on to college. His first job was pumping gas at a filling station, his second job was as a shipping clerk. But from there on he rose, step by step, eventually establishing his own business, making synthetic yarn. From there he branched out into petrochemicals and eventually created India's largest company and the world's largest multi feed refinery. By 1995, his company had 2.4 million stockholders and their annual meetings had to be held in a football stadium. Such stories have often been seen as just examples of individual good fortune for exceptional people. But the more fundamental point is the great advantage for any society that can tap the talents of people from all across the social spectrum to develop its economy and thereby raise the living standards of its population as a whole. That is what Carnegie, Ford, Sears, and Penney did in America and what people from modest or even poverty backgrounds have begun to do in India after it moved in the direction of freer markets at the end of the twentieth century. Info sys was started by six Indian computer engineers with a total capital of $600 among them, and it grew until the company was worth $15 billion. Its Chief Executive Officer received his education at one of the local engineering colleges because, although he had been admitted to the more prestigious Indian Institute of Technology, his father could not afford to pay the $20 a month required for a place for him to live away from home. Another Indian entrepreneur who rose from poverty was Sam Pitroda, born in a village where there was no electricity, no telephones, and no running water. His early education was in a one-room school where most of the children had neither books nor shoes. He somehow made his way to the United States, where he rose to become a millionaire in telecommunications. Then he returned to India and proceeded to revolutionize their antiquated and bureaucratically dominated telephone system. From a country with only 12,000 telephones for 700 million people, India had by 1990 become a country with 5 million telephones. Before the end of the decade India had nearly 20 million phones and the years-long waiting lists of the past had virtually disappeared. That Pitroda became wealthy during this process is a footnote to history. It is what he did for millions of people in India that was historic. Neither poverty nor caste has died out in India. While most of India's managers and professionals come from upper-caste backgrounds, the