Mexico, the cheapest room available at the modest Best Western hotel was $180 a night in mid-2001, while the fancy Ritz-Carlton nearby was renting rooms for $169 a night. The Best Western happened to be filled up and the Ritz-Carlton happened to have vacancies. Nor was this peculiar to Mexico. A four-star hotel in Manhattan was renting rooms for less than a two-star hotel nearby and the posh Phoenician in Phoenix was renting rooms for less than the Holiday Inn in the same city. Why were normally very expensive hotels renting rooms for less than hotels that were usually much lower in price? Again, the key was the utilization of capacity. Apparently tourists going to popular resorts on a limited budget had made reservations at the low-cost hotels well in advance, in order to be sure of finding something affordable. This meant that fluctuations in the number of tourists would be absorbed by the higher-priced hotels. A general decline in tourism in 2001 thus led to vacancies at the luxury hotels, which had no choice but to cut prices in order to attract more people to fill the rooms. Thus the luxurious Boca Raton Club & Spa in Florida gave guests their third night free and tourists were able to get last-minute bargains on beachfront villas at Hilton Head, South Carolina, where reservations usually must be made six months in advance. Conversely, a rise in tourism would also be absorbed by the luxury hotels, which could raise their prices even more than usual. In many industries and enterprises, capacity must be built to handle the peak volume-which means that there is excess capacity at other times. The Cost of accommodating more users of the product or service during the times when there is excess capacity is much less than the cost of handling those who are served at peak times. A cruise ship, for example, must receive enough money from its passengers to cover not only such current costs as paying the crew, buying food, and using fuel, it must also be able to pay such overhead costs as the purchase price of the ship and the expenses at the headquarters of the cruise line. To handle twice as many passengers on a given cruise at the peak season may mean buying another ship, as well as hiring another crew and buying twice as much food and fuel. However, if the number of passengers in the off season is only one-third of what it is at the peak, then a doubling of the number of off-season passengers will not require buying another ship. Existing ships can simply sail with fewer empty cabins. Therefore, it pays the cruise line to try to attract economy-minded passengers by offering much reduced fares during the off season. Groups of retired people, for example, can usually schedule their cruises at any time of the year, not being tied down to the vacation schedules of their jobs or the schedule of their children's schools. It is