will be allowed to fall, sometimes with the government being legally obligated to buy up the farmer's output whenever free market prices go below the specified levels. Equally widespread are minimum wage laws, which set a limit to how Iowa worker's wage rate may be. Here the government seldom offers to buy up the surplus labor which the free market does not employ, though it usually offers unemployment compensation, covering some proportion of the wages that might otherwise have been earned. To understand the effects of price control, it is necessary to understand how prices rise and fall in a free market. There is nothing esoteric about it, but it is important to be very clear about what happens. Prices rise because the amount demanded exceeds the amount supplied at existing prices. Prices fall because the amount supplied exceeds the amount demanded at existing prices. The first case is called a "shortage" and the second is called a "surplus"-but both depend on existing prices. Simple as this might seem, it is often misunderstood, sometimes with disastrous consequences. A closer examination shows why shortages persist when the government sets a maximum price that is lower than what it would be in a free market and why a surplus persists when the government sets minimum prices that are higher than these prices would be in a free market. PRICE CEILINGS AND SHORTAGES When there is a "shortage" of a product, there is not necessarily any less of it, either absolutely or relative to the number of consumers. During and immediately after the Second World War, for example, there was a very serious housing shortage in the United States, even though the country's population and its housing supply had both increased about 10 percent from their prewar levels-and there was no shortage when the war began. In other words, even though the ratio between housing and people had not changed, nevertheless many Americans looking for an apartment during this period had to spend weeks or months in an often vain search for a place to live, or else resorted to bribes to get landlords to move them to the top of waiting lists. Meanwhile, they doubled up with relatives, slept in garages or used other makeshift living arrangements. Although there was no less housing space per person than before the war, the shortage was very real at existing prices, which were kept artificially lower than they would have been because of rent control laws that had been passed during the war. At these artificially low prices, more people had a demand for more housing space than before rent control laws were enacted. This is a practical consequence of the simple economic principle already noted in Chapter 2, that the quantity demanded varies with how high or how low the price is. When some people used more housing than usual, other people found less housing available. Demand Under Rent Control Some people who would normally not be renting their own apartments, such as young