emotional words used to describe and confuse things that are not very difficult to understand in themselves. For example, the terminology used to describe an export surplus as a "favorable" balance of trade and an import surplus as an "unfavorable" balance of trade goes back for centuries. At one time, it was widely believed that an import surplus impoverished a nation because the difference between imports and exports had to be paid in gold, and the loss of gold was seen as a loss of national wealth. However, as early as 1776, Adam Smith's classic The Wealth of Nations argued that the real wealth of a nation consists of its goods and services, not its gold supply. Too many people have yet to grasp this, even in the twenty-first century. If the goods and services available to the American people are greater as a result of international trade, then Americans are wealthier, not poorer, regardless of whether there is a "deficit" or a "surplus" in the international balance of trade. As for gold, India had the world's largest supply of gold in 2003, but no one considered it the world's richest nation. Indeed, it is one of the poorest. Incidentally, during the Great Depression of the 1930s, the United States had an export surplus-a "favorable" balance of trade-in every year of that disastrous decade. What may be more relevant is that both imports and exports were sharply lower than they had been during the prosperous decade of the 1920s. This reduction in international trade was a result of rising tariff barriers in countries around the world, as nations attempted to save jobs in their own domestic economies, during a period of widespread unemployment, by keeping out international trade. Such policies have been regarded by many economists as needlessly worsening and prolonging the worldwide depression. The last thing needed when national income is going down is a policy that makes it go down faster, by denying consumers the benefits of being able to buy what they want at the lowest price available. Slippery words can make bad news look like good news and vice versa. For example, the much-lamented international trade deficit of the United States narrowed by a record-breaking amount in the spring of 2001, as Businessweek magazine reported under the headline: "A Shrinking Trade Gap Looks Good Stateside." However, this happened while the stock market was falling, unemployment was rising, corporate profits were down, and the total output of the American economy went down. The supposedly "good" news on international trade was due to reduced imports during shaky economic times. Had the country gone into a deep depression, the international trade balance might have disappeared completely, but fortunately Americans were spared that much "good" news. Just as the United States had a "favorable" balance of trade every year of the Great Depression of the 1930s, it became a record-breaking "debtor nation" during the booming prosperity of the 1990s. Obviously, such words cannot be taken at face value as indicators