so that international transactions have become a larger proportion of all transactions. Even an economy like that of the United States, where international trade played a relatively small role at one time, has seen its international component rising, both in trade and in investment in and from other economies. Third World countries and formerly Communist countries which once severely restricted their international economic transactions have increasingly opened up their economies to the international economy. The term "globalization" has been used to describe this process of expanded international commerce and investment, though there has long been much global economic activity by particular countries and enterprises. The British, for example, built the first railroads in many countries, from India to Argentina and from Australia to West Africa. The leading manufacturer of agricultural machinery in czarist Russia was the American firm International Harvester. During the colonial era in East Africa, entrepreneurs from India were so dominant in the economy that rupees became the common currency in the region. In short, "globalization" is a new name for an old phenomenon, but one that has become even more important in recent times. Globalization undoubtedly harms some businesses and industries and costs some people their jobs. But so do any other ways of creating greater efficiency in the allocation of scarce resources which have alternative uses. Opponents of free trade try to depict it as harmful to the society as a whole, and appeal to a sense of "us" against "them," as if other countries are in some way making Americans worse off by selling them things that they want to buy. Like anything else that allows goods and services to be produced more cheaply or better, international trade benefits the consumers while reducing profits and employment among those who produce more costly or obsolete products. Protecting the less efficient producer makes no more sense internationally than it does domestically. Whatever jobs are saved in either case do not represent net savings for the economy as a whole, but only the saving of some jobs by sacrificing others, along with sacrificing the consumer. When particular jobs and businesses succumb to more efficient competition, whether domestic or international, resources which have alternative uses can go to those alternative uses and thus add to the national output. It is not a zero-sum game. Conversely, preventing such transfers saves relatively few jobs at very high costs per job, as in the European Union countries, or saves jobs in one industry at the expense of more jobs in other industries, as in the case of the American steel tariffs. International trade is one way of sharing in the advantages that other countries have in producing particular products. Together with international investments, this is also a way to share in the technology and organizational advances made in other countries, as well as in agricultural produce transplanted from other parts of the world, such as the rubber transplanted to Malaysia and the cocoa transplanted to Ghana-with each of these countries becoming the