studies show that profit rates are generally no higher in inner city businesses than elsewhere, and the fact that many businesses are leaving such neighborhoods-and others, such as supermarket chains, are staying away-reinforces that conclusion. The painful fact that poor people end up paying more than affluent people for many goods and services has a very plain-and systemic-explanation. It often costs more to deliver goods and services in low-income neighborhoods. Higher insurance costs and higher costs for various security precautions, due to higher rates of crime and vandalism, are just some of systemic reasons that get ignored by those seeking an explanation in terms of personal intentions. For example, an inner city shopping center in one Midwestern city had to spend 15 percent more on security guards and lighting than a comparable suburban shopping complex. All these costs get passed along to the local customers in higher prices. In addition, the cost of doing business tends to be higher per dollar of business in low-income neighborhoods. Lending $100 each to fifty low-income borrowers at pawn shops or local finance companies takes more time and costs more money to process the applications than lending $5,000 at a bank to one middle-class customer, even though the same total sum of money is involved in both cases.2 An armored car delivering money in small denominations to a small check-cashing agency in a ghetto costs just as much as an armored car delivering a hundred times as much value of money, in larger bills, to a bank in a suburban shopping mall. With the cost of business being higher per dollar of business in the low-income community, it is hardly surprising that these higher costs get passed on in higher prices and higher interest rates. Higher prices for people who can least afford them is a tragic end-result, but its causes are systemic. This is not merely a philosophical distinction. There are major practical consequences to the way causation is understood. Treating the causes of higher prices and higher interest rates in low-income neighborhoods as being personal greed or exploitation, and trying to remedy it by imposing price controls and interest rate ceilings only ensures that even less will be (1) In many cases, the middle-class borrower who already has a checking account at the bank from which he wishes to borrow also has an automatic line of credit available with that checking account. When the need for a 15,000 loan arises, there may be no need even to me an application. The borrower simply writes 15,000 more in checks than there is money in the account, and the automatic line of credit covers it, with minimum time and trouble to both the borrower and the bank, since the potential borrower's credit rating was already established when the account was first opened and the size of the line of credit was established on the basis of that credit rating. supplied in low-income neighborhoods thereafter. Just as rent control reduces the supply of housing, so