resented and this resentment has in many cases led politically to their persecution or expulsion. In addition to the tragedies inflicted on these minorities, the economic impact of their departures has been a loss to the countries in which they have not been allowed to contribute what they could. Very few Third World countries have been devoid of the human capital-indigenous or otherwise-needed for economic development. West Africa, for example, became the world's leading grower and exporter of cocoa as a result of the planting and growing of this crop by innumerable African small farmers, even though cocoa was not indigenous to Africa. During the twentieth century, many poor countries spent decades keeping out foreign products, foreign investments, and multinational corporations, for fear of being exploited. This meant that they had to produce for themselves many products that were available at lower prices in the world market, as well as products that could have been produced more cheaply within their own borders by foreign companies using more advanced technology and industrial experience. People in poor countries were thus denied not only the benefits of a greater abundance of goods, but also opportunities to become familiar with more advanced technology and modern organizational practices that would enable them to create and manage such enterprises themselves. An analysis of 2,700 firms in East Asia by the National Bureau of Economic Research concluded that "firms in which foreigners have a substantial ownership share have markedly higher productivity than those that are domestically owned." More productivity means higher standards of living. The poorer the country, the less could they afford to forgo opportunities for a higher standard of living. Eventually, by the late twentieth century, many Third World governments finally realized their mistake, but whole generations had had their economic well-being needlessly sacrificed in the meantime. Partly this change in policy was made because these governments had observed the dramatic economic improvements in once-poor countries like South Korea and Taiwan, which opted to participate heavily in global markets, as compared to the relative stagnation in countries like India and some Latin American nations which did not. However, the history of Western nations in centuries past could have revealed similar lessons. While Britain was the nation that led the world into the industrial age, nevertheless in earlier pre-industrial centuries, Britain was much like Third World countries today. It exported raw materials such as wool and imported manufactured products from more advanced nations on the continent of Europe. Britain's financial institutions were run by foreigners and whole British industries, such as watch-making and piano-manufacturing, were created by immigrants and expatriates. It was only after centuries of learning from others that Britain was ready to take its place at the head of technological and organizational advances in the world economy. Japan went through a similar phase in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. PART VII: SPECIAL ECONOMIC ISSUES Chapter 22 Non-Economic Values While economics offers many insights and makes it easier to see through some popular