at all. The net result was that many local "monopoly" newspapers had difficulties even surviving financially, much less making any extra profits associated with monopoly. Yet anti-trust policies based on market shares continued to impose restrictions on mergers of local newspapers, lest such mergers leave the surviving newspapers with too much "control" of their local market. But the market as defined by the location of the producer had become largely irrelevant economically. An extreme example of how misleading market share statistics can be was the case of a local movie chain that showed 100 percent of all the first-run movies in Las Vegas. It was prosecuted as a monopoly but, by the time the case reached the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, another movie chain was showing more first-run movies in Las Vegas than the "monopolist" that was being prosecuted. Fortunately, sanity prevailed in this instance. Judge Alex Kozinski of the 9th Circuit Court of Appeal pointed out that the key to monopoly is not market share-even when it is 100 percent-but the ability to keep others out. A company which cannot keep competitors out is not a monopoly, no matter what percentage of the market it may have at a given moment. That is why the Palo Alto Weekly is not a monopoly in any economically meaningful sense, even though it is the only newspaper published in town, because newspapers published in San Francisco or even New York are at least as widely available locally and more likely to be delivered to homes in Palo Alto. Focusing on market shares at a given moment has also led to a pattern in which the U. S. government has prosecuted leading firms in an industry just when they were about to lose that leadership. In a world where it is common for particular companies to rise and fall over time, anti-trust lawyers can take years to build a case against a company that is at its peak-and about to head over the hill. For example, an anti-trust case against the A & P grocery chain ended in 1949, just three years before A & P lost $50 million and began a long and catastrophic economic decline. 1 The "control," "power," and "dominance" of A & P, which the government lawyers depicted so convincingly in court proved to be of little consequence in the marketplace, when other supermarket chains were able to sell at lower prices. A major anti-trust case can take a decade or more to be brought to a final conclusion. Markets often react much more quickly than this against monopolies and cartels, as early twentieth century trusts found when giant retailers like Sears, Montgomery Ward and A & P outflanked them long before the government could make a legal case against them. Perhaps the most clearly positive benefit of American anti-trust laws has been a blanket prohibition against collusion to fix prices. This is an automatic violation, subject to heavy penalties, regardless of any justification that might be attempted.