another-or perhaps even one car rather than another. Perhaps more important, the public usually buys finished results in the marketplace but can choose only among competing promises in the political arena. In the marketplace, the strawberries or the house that you are considering buying are right before your eyes when you make your decision, while the policies that a candidate promises to follow must be accepted more or less on faith-and the eventual consequences of those policies still more so. Speculation is just one aspect of a market economy but it is of the essence of elections. On the other hand, each voter has the same single vote on election day, whereas consumers have very different amounts of dollars to vote with in the marketplace. However, these dollar differences may even out somewhat over a lifetime, as the same individual moves from one income bracket to another over the years, but the differences are there as of any given time. The influence of wealth in the marketplace makes many prefer to move decisions into the political arena, on the assumption that this is a more level playing field. However, among the things that wealth buys is more and better education, as well as more leisure time that can be devoted to political activities and the mastering of legal technicalities. All this translates into a disproportionate influence of wealthier people in the political process, while the fact that those who are not rich often have more money in the aggregate than those who are may give ordinary more weight in the market than in the political or legal arena. PART VI: THE INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY Chapter 19 International Trade . .. the same people who can be clearheaded and sensible when the subject is one of domestic trade can be incredibly emotional and muddleheaded when it becomes one of foreign trade. -HENRY HAZLITT When discussing the historic North American Free Trade Agreement of 1993 (NAFTA), the New York Times said: Abundant evidence is emerging that jobs are shifting across borders too rapidly to declare the United States a job winner or a job loser from the trade agreement. Posing the issue in these terms committed the central fallacy in many discussions of international trade-assuming that one country must be a "loser" if the other country is a "winner." But international trade is not a zero-sum Contest. Both sides must gain or it would make no sense to continue trading. Nor is it necessary for government officials or experts to determine whether both sides are gaining. Most international trade, like most domestic trade, is done by millions of individuals, each of whom can determine whether the Item purchased is worth what it cost and is preferable to what is available , from others. As for jobs, before the free-trade agreement was passed, there were dire predictions of "a giant sucking sound" as jobs would be sucked out of the United States to Mexico and other countries with lower wage rates after the free-trade