give consignments of jewels to one another and share the sales proceeds on the basis of verbal agreements among themselves. The extreme social isolation of the Hasidic community from the larger society, and even from other Jews, makes it very costly for anyone who grows up in that community to disgrace his family and lose his own standing, as well as his own economic and social relationships, by cheating on an agreement with a fellow Hasidim. It is much the same story halfway around the world, where the overseas Chinese minority in various southeast Asian countries make verbal agreements among themselves, without the sanction of the local legal system. Given the unreliability and corruption of some of these post-colonial legal systems, the ability of the Chinese to rely on their own social and economic standards gives them an economic advantage over their indigenous competitors who lack an equally reliable and inexpensive way of making transactions. The costs of doing business are thus less for the Chinese than for Malay, Indonesian or other businesses in the region, giving the Chinese competitive advantages. This ability to rely on others within the group or family has likewise been a factor in the remarkable success of the Palanpuri Jains in India, who are the leading diamond suppliers there and who also control half the world's supply of uncut diamonds. Indeed, these Jains have begun to displace Jews in Antwerp, where about 90 percent of the world's uncut diamonds and half of its polished diamonds are sold. Although businesses in some American communities must incur the extra expense of heavy grates for protection from theft and vandalism while closed and security guards for protection while open, businesses in other American communities have no such expenses and are therefore able to operate profitably while charging lower prices. Rental car companies can park their cars in lots without fences or guards in some communities, while in other places it would be financial suicide to do so. But, in those places where rare car thefts from unguarded lots cost less than paying guards and maintaining fences would cost, then rental car agencies-and other businesses-can flourish in such communities. In short, honesty is more than a moral principle. It is also a major economic factor. While government can do little to create honesty, in various ways it can either support or undermine the traditions on which honest conduct is based. This it can do by what it teaches in its schools, by the examples set by public officials, or by the laws that it passes. These laws can create incentives toward either moral or immoral conduct. Where laws create a situation where the only way to avoid ruinous losses is by violating the law, the government is in effect reducing public respect for laws in general and rewarding dishonest behavior. Advocates of rent control, for example, often point to examples of villainy among landlords to demonstrate the need for both rent control itself and related tenants' rights legislation. However,