after starting from a similar economic level, was mentioned on page 222 of The Commanding Heights by Daniel Yergin and Joseph Stanislaw. India's relaxation of government controls over its economy was reported in the distinguished British magazine, The Economist, June 2, 2001, page 13. The use of food and electricity in an Israeli kibbutz, before and after prices were charged for them, is discussed on pages 332 and 333 of Heaven on Earth: the Rise and Fall of Socialism by Joshua Muracchik, published in 2002 by Encounter Books. The relationship between housing prices and population changes in upstate New York was described on page 70 of an article titled "Down-and-Out Upstate," by Jerry Zremski in the Autumn 1999 issue of City Journal, published by the Manhattan Institute, a think tank in New York. CHAPTER 3: PRICE CONTROLS The fact that the housing shortage in the United States occurred when there was no change in the ratio of housing to people is from a book titled Roofs or Ceilings? by two economists later destined to win Nobel Prizes, Milton Friedman and George J. Stigler. The book itself has long been out of print, but excerpts from it were included in a collection of writings titled Rent Control: Costs and Consequences, edited by Robert Albon and published in 1980 by an Australian think tank, The Center for Independent Studies, located in Sydney. This particular statement occurs on page 16. The data on housing in San Francisco after the 1906 earthquake are on pages 5 and 6. The facts about rent control in Sweden are from a different article in the same book, "The Rise, Fall and Revival of Swedish Rent Control" by Sven Rydeenfelt. The lack of building in Melbourne under Australian rent control is mentioned on page 125 in another article. The age of rent-controlled housing in San Francisco is from page 61 of San Francisco Housing Databook, a 2001 study commissioned by the city and produced by consultants called Bay Area Economics. Facts about the effects on rent control in Britain, France, Germany, and the Netherlands are from Rent Control in North America and Four European Countries by Joel F. Brenner and Herbert M. Franklin, published by Mercury Press, pages 4, 9, and 69. The withdrawal of rental units after the imposition of rent control in Toronto was mentioned on page 21 of Zoning, Rent Control and Affordable Housing by William Tucker, published by the Cato Institute, a think tank in Washington. Many of the facts about rent control and homelessness in the United States are from The Excluded Americans by William Tucker (especially pages 19, 162,275 and Chapter 19, which discusses various elite celebrities living in rent-controlled apartments). The comment from the New York Times is from page 40 of an article by John Tierney in their Sunday magazine section of May 4, 1997, titled "At the Intersection of Supply and Demand." The fact that nearly half the rent-controlled apartments in San Francisco had only one tenant IS from