the most striking that capitalist economies still show higher per capita output. Despite all the problems with comparisons of national output between very different countries or between time periods far removed from one another, Gross Domestic Product statistics provide a reasonable basis for comparing similar countries at the same time-especially when population size differences are taken into account by comparing Gross Domestic Product per capita. Thus when the data show that the Gross Domestic Product per capita in Norway in 2002 was double what it was in Portugal the same year, we can reasonably conclude that the Norwegians had a significantly higher standard of living. Statistical Trends One of the problems with comparisons of national output over time is the arbitrary choice of the year to use as the beginning of the time span. For example, one of the big political campaign issues of 1960 was the rate of growth of the American economy under the existing administration. Presidential candidate John F. Kennedy promised to "get America moving again" economically if he were elected, implying that the national economic growth rate had stagnated under the party of his opponent. The validity of this charge depended entirely on which year you chose as the year from which to begin counting. The long-term average annual rate of growth of the Gross National Product of the United States had been about 3 percent per year. As of 1960, this growth rate was as low as 1.9 percent (since 1945) or as high as 4.4 percent (since 1958). Whatever the influence of the existing administration on any of this, whether it was doing a wonderful job or a terrible job depended entirely on the base year arbitrarily selected. Many "trends" reported in the media or proclaimed in politics likewise depend entirely on which year has been chosen as the beginning of the trend. Crime has been going up if you measure from 1960 to the present, but down if you measure from 1990 to the present. It has been claimed that automobile fatality rates have declined since the federal government began imposing various safety regulations. This is true-but it is also true that automobile fatality rates were declining for decades before the federal government imposed any safety regulations. Is the continuation of a trend that existed long before a given policy was begun proof of the effectiveness of that policy? National output data, like many other statistics, fluctuate over time. That makes it possible to say that the trends are going up or down, depending on which point in these fluctuations you choose as the base year from which to begin counting. Even in the absence of deliberate manipulation of trend data, honest confusion can lead to false conclusion. One of the first things taught in introductory statistics is that correlation is not causation. Unfortunately, it may also be one of the first things forgotten. In some countries, especially in the Third World, so much economic activity takes place "off the books" that official