1590s to the 1740s-while having some of the highest-paid workers in the world. Britain was the world's greatest exporter in the nineteenth century and its wage rates were much higher than the wage rates in many, if not most, of the countries to which it sold its goods. Conversely, India has had far lower wage rates than those in more industrialized countries like Japan and the United States, but India restricted imports of automobiles and other products made in Japan and the United States because India's domestic producers could not compete in price or quality with such products. After an easing of restrictions on international trade, even the leading Indian industrial firm, Tata, has had to be concerned about imports from China, despite the higher wages of Chinese workers: . . . the Tata group set up a special office to educate the different parts of its sprawling business empire on the possible fallout from the removal of import restrictions. Jiban Mukhopadhyay, economic adviser to the group's chairman, heads the operation. In his desk drawer he keeps a silk tie bought on a trip to China. Managers who attend the company's WTO [World Trade Organization] workshop are asked to guess its price. "It's only 85 rupees," he points out. "A similar tie made in India would cost 400 rupees." Economically, the key flaw in the high-wage argument is that it confuses wage rates with labor costs-and labor costs with total costs. Wage rates are measured per hour of work. Labor costs are measured per unit of output. Total costs include not only the cost of labor but also the cost of capital, raw materials, transportation, and other things needed to produce output and bring the finished product to market. When workers in a prosperous country receive wages twice as high as workers in a poorer country and produce three times the output per hour, then it is the high-wage country which has the lower labor costs per unit of output. That is, it is cheaper to get a given amount of work done in the more prosperous country simply because it takes less labor, even though individual workers are paid more for their time. The higher-paid workers may be more efficiently organized and managed, or have far more or better machinery to work with, or work in companies or industries with greater economies of scale. Often transportation costs are lower in the more developed country, SO that total costs of delivering the product to market are less. There are, after all, reasons why one country is more prosperous than another in the first place-and often that reason is that they are more efficient at producing and delivering output, for any of a number of reasons. In short, higher wage rates per unit of time are not the same as higher costs per unit of output. It may not even mean higher labor costs per unit of output-and of course labor costs are not the only costs. An international consulting firm