government bought 6 million hogs in 1933 alone and destroyed them. Huge amounts of farm produce were plowed under, in order to keep it off the market and maintain prices at the fixed level, and vast amounts of milk were poured down the sewers for the same reason. Meanwhile, many American children were suffering from diseases caused by malnutrition. Still, there was a food surplus. A surplus, like a shortage, is a price phenomenon. A surplus does not mean that there is some excess relative to the people. There was not "too much" food relative to the population during the Great Depression. The people simply did not have enough money to buy everything that was produced at the artificially high prices set by the government. A very similar situation existed in poverty-stricken India at the beginning of the twenty-first century, where there was a surplus of wheat and rice under government price supports. The Far Eastern Economic Review reported: India's public stock of food grains is at an all-time high, and next spring, it will grow still further to a whopping 80 million tonnes, or four times the amount necessary in case of national emergency. Yet while that wheat and rice sits idle-in some cases for years, to the point of rotting-millions of Indians don't have enough to eat. A report from India in the New York Times told a very similar story under the headline, "Poor in India Starve as Surplus wheat Rots": Surplus from this year's wheat harvest, bought by the government from farmers, sits moldering in muddy fields here in Punjab State. Some of the previous year's wheat surplus sits untouched, too, and the year's before that, and the year's before that. To the south, in the neighboring state of Rajasthan, villagers ate boiled leaves or disks of bread made from grass seeds in late summer and autumn because they could not afford to buy wheat. One by one, children and adults-as many as 47 in all-wilted away from hunger-related causes, often clutching pained stomachs. A surplus or "glut" of food in India, where malnutrition is still a serious problem, may seem like a contradiction in terms. But food surpluses under "floor" prices are as real as the housing shortages under "ceiling" prices. In the United States, the vast amount of storage space required to keep surplus crops off the market once led to such desperate expedients as storing these . farm products in unused warships, when all the storage facilities on land had been filled to capacity. Otherwise, American wheat would have had to be left outside to rot, as in India. A series of bumper crops in the United States could lead to the federal government's having more wheat in storage than was grown by American farmers all year. In India, it was reported in 002 that the Indian government was spending more on storage of its surplus produce than on agriculture, rural development, irrigation and flood control combined. None of this is peculiar to