within the country to be able to develop and produce automobiles from scratch to sell at prices low enough to compete with automobiles produced in much larger quantities in the United States or Japan. The largest number of cars of any given make sold in Australia is only about half of the quantity needed to reap all the cost benefits of economies of scale. While the number of automobiles owned per capita is very similar in Australia and in the United States, there are more than a dozen times as many Americans as there are Australians. Even those cars which have been manufactured in Australia have been developed in other countries- Toyotas and Mitsubishis from Japan and Ford and General Motors cars from the United States. They are essentially Australian-built Japanese or American cars, which means that companies in Japan and the United States have already paid the huge engineering and other costs of developing these vehicles. But the Australian market is not large enough to achieve sufficient economies of scale to produce Australian automobiles from scratch at a cost that would enable them to compete in the market with imported cars. Although Australia is a modern prosperous country, with output per person similar to that of Great Britain and higher than that in Canada, its small population limits its total purchasing power to less than one-seventh that of Japan and one-twentieth of that of the United States. Exports enable some countries to achieve economies of scale that would not be possible from domestic sales alone. Some business enterprises make most of their sales outside their respective countries' borders. For example, the Dutch retailer Royal Ahold is the world's largest food distributor and has more than two-thirds of its sales outside of the Netherlands, with two thirds of its profit coming from the United States, although it also owns hundreds of stores in Argentina, Brazil, and other countries as well. The Swedish retailer Hennes & Mauritz has more than four-fifths of its sales outside of Sweden. Heineken likewise does not have to depend on the small Holland market for its beer sales, since it sells beer in 170 other countries. Toyota, Honda, and Nissan all earn most of their profits in North America. Small countries like South Korea and Taiwan depend on international trade to be able to produce many products on a scale far exceeding what can be sold domestically. . In short, international trade is necessary for many countries to achieve economies of scale that will enable them to sell at prices that can compete With the prices of similar products in the world market. For some products requiring huge investments in machinery and research, only a very few large and prosperous countries could reach the levels of output needed to repay all these costs from domestic sales alone. International trade creates greater efficiency by allowing more economies of scale around the world, even in countries whose domestic markets are not large enough to absorb all the output