economy. Even when leaders have more knowledge and insight than the average member of the society, they are unlikely to have nearly as much knowledge and insight as exists scattered among the millions of people subject to their governance. Knowledge and insight need not be technological or scientific for it to be economically valuable and decisive for the material well-being of the society as a whole. Something as mundane as retailing changed radically during the course of the twentieth century, revolutionizing both department stores and grocery stores-and raising the standard of living of millions of Americans by lowering the costs of delivering goods to them. Names like Sears and Ward's came to mean department store chains to most Americans in the twentieth century. However, neither of these enterprises began as department store chains. Montgomery Ward-the original name of Ward's department stores-began as a mail-order house in the nineteenth century. Under the conditions of that time, before automobiles or trucks and with most Americans living in small rural communities, the high costs of delivering consumer goods to widely-scattered local stores was reflected in the high prices that were charged. These high prices, in turn, meant that ordinary people could seldom afford many of the things that we today regard as basic. Montgomery Ward cut delivery costs by operating as a mail-order house, selling directly to consumers all over the country from its huge warehouse in Chicago. Its high volume of sales also reduced its cost per sale and allowed it to cut its prices below those charged by local stores in small communities. Under these conditions, Montgomery Ward became the world's largest retailer in the late nineteenth century. Sears then arose as a competing mail order house and eventually surpassed Montgomery Ward in sales. One indication of the size of these two retail giants was that each had railroad tracks running through its Chicago warehouse. More important than the fates of these two businesses was the fact that millions of people were able to afford a higher standard of living than if they had to be supplied with goods through costlier channels. Meanwhile, there were changes in American society, with more and more people beginning to live in urban communities. This was not a secret, but not everyone noticed such gradual changes and even fewer had the insight to understand their implications for retail selling. It was 1920 before the census showed that, for the first time in the country's history, there were more Americans living in urban areas than in rural areas. One man who liked to pore over such statistics was Robert Wood, an executive at Montgomery Ward. Now, he realized, selling merchandise through a chain of urban department stores would be more efficient and more profitable than selling exclusively by mail order. Not only were his insights not shared by the head of Montgomery Ward, Wood was fired for his suggestion. Meanwhile, a man named James Cash Penney had the same insight and was already setting up his