preferred to Japanese money in Japan. In twentieth century Bolivia, most of the savings accounts were in dollars in 1985, during a period of runaway inflation of the Bolivian peso. Gold continues to be preferred to many national currencies, even though gold earns no interest, while money in the bank does. The fluctuating price of gold reflects not only the changing demands for it for making jewelry the source of about 80 percent of the demand for gold-or in some industrial uses but also, and more fundamentally, these fluctuations reflect the degree of worry about the possibility of inflation that could erode the purchasing power of official currencies. That is why a major political or military crisis can send the price of gold shooting up, as people dump their holdings of the currencies that might be affected and begin bidding against each other to buy gold, as a more reliable way to hold their existing wealth, even if it does not earn any interest or dividends. For example, when the World Trade Center in New York was destroyed on September 11,2001, the price of gold rose from about $270 an ounce to nearly $290 in one day. On the eve of the war with Iraq in 2003, gold reached $385 an ounce, as people worried about what the economic impact of that war would be. Conversely, long periods of prosperity with price stability are likely to see the price of gold falling, as people move their wealth out of gold and into other financial assets that earn interest or dividends and can therefore increase their wealth. The great unspoken fear behind this and many other i transactions in the financial markets is the fear of inflation. Nor is this fear irrational, given how often governments of all types-from monarchies to I democracies to dictatorships-have resorted to inflation, as a means of getting more wealth without having to directly confront the public with higher taxes. Raising tax rates has always created political dangers to those who hold Political power. Political careers can be destroyed when the voting public turns against those who raised their tax rates. Sometimes public reaction to higher taxes can range all the way up to armed revolts, such as those that led to the American war of independence from Britain. In addition to adverse political reactions to higher taxes, there can be adverse economic reactions. As tax rates reach ever higher levels, particular economic activities may be. abandoned by those who do not find the net rate of return on these activities, after taxes, to be enough to justify their efforts. Thus many people abandoned agriculture and moved to the cities during the declining era of the Roman Empire, adding to the number of people needing to be taken care of by the government, at the very time when the food supply was declining because of those who had stopped farming. In order to avoid the political dangers that raising tax rates can create, governments around the