too common to read journalists and others discussing how "society" distributes its income, rather than saying in plain English that some people make more money than others. . More is involved than a misleading metaphor. Often the very units In which income differences are discussed are as misleading as the metaphor. Family income or household income are not like individual income. An individual always means the same thing-one person-but the sizes of families and households differ substantially from one time period to another, from one racial or ethnic group to another, and from one income bracket to another. For example, a detailed analysis of U.S. Census data showed that there were 39 million people in the bottom 20 percent of households but 64 million people in the top 20 percent of households. Although the unwary might assume that these quintiles represent dividing the country into "five equal layers," as two well-known economists have misstated it in a popular book, there is nothing equal about those layers. They represent grossly different numbers of people. Not only do the numbers of people differ considerably between low-in. come households and high-income households, the proportions of people ; who work also differ by very substantial amounts between these households. In the year 2000, the top 20 percent of households contained 19 million heads of households who worked, compared to fewer than 8 million heads of households who worked in the bottom 20 percent of households. When it comes to working full-time the year around, even the top 5 percent of households contained more heads of household who worked full-time for 50 or more weeks than did the bottom 20 percent. That is, there were more heads of household in absolute numbers-3.9 million versus 3.3 million-working full-time and year-around in the top 5 percent of households compared to the bottom 20 percent. At one time, back in the 18908, people in the top 10 percent in income worked fewer hours than people in the bottom 10 percent, but that situation has long since reversed. The sizes of families and households have differed not only from one income bracket to another at a given time, but also have differed over time. These differences are not incidental. They radically change the implications of "income distribution" statistics. For example, real income per American household rose only 6 percent over the entire period from 1969 to 1996, but real per capita income rose 51 percent over the same period. The discrepancy , is due to the fact that the average size of families and households was declining during these years, so that smaller households were now earning about the same as larger households had earned a generation earlier. Rising prosperity was one reason for more people to be able to go set up .their own individual households, instead of continuing to live with parents or as roomers elsewhere, or by sharing an apartment with a roommate. Yet these consequences of prosperity generate household statistics that are . widely used