assets is from pages 507 and 508 of the Bureau of the Census publication Statistical Abstract of the United States:2000. Data on the percentage of current premium income that is paid out in current claims by Allstate and State Farm insurance companies is from page C10 of the January 2, 2003 issue of the New York Times in an article beginning on page C1 titled "Colossus; at the Accident Scene" by Jerry Guidera. The proportion of life insurance companies' income from premiums and investments is from page 81 of Life Insurers Fact Book: 2000, published by the American Council of Life Insurers, located in Washington, D. C. Data on varying motor vehicle death rates by age are from page 109 of The Insurance Information Institute Fact Book 2001. The quotation from a City Attorney in Oakland who complained that it was unfair to charge people different automobile insurance premiums based on where they lived was from page B 1 of the San Francisco Chronicle of May 30, 2003 under the titled "Car Insurance Rates Hit" by Carolyn Said. The use of global positioning systems by insurance companies looking for their policy-holders in the wake of natural disaster is from the New York Times of January 18, 1999, section, C, page 8. The title of the story is "Media; Sweetheart, Give Me a Reboot" and it was written by Dylan Loeb Mcclain. The Indian government's tardiness in responding to a cyclone is discussed on page 535 of Indian economist Barun S. Mitra's article, "Dealing with Natural Disaster: Role of the Market," in the December 2000 issue of Journal des Economistes et des Etudes Humaines. The financial problems of government pension plans in Europe Union countries are discussed on pages 5 and 6 of a special section within the February 16, 2002 issue of The Economist, in an article titled "Snares and Delusions." The special section is titled "Time to Grow Up." The quotation about Brazil's government pension plan is from page 36 of the April 5, 2003 issue of The Economist in an article titled "Lula's Great Pension Battle." The New Zealand poll on the likelihood of receiving government pensions is cited on page 71 of the April-May 2003 issue of Policy Review, in an article titled "Market Reform: Lessons from New Zealand" by Rupert Darwall. CHAPTER 14: AN OVERVIEW The epigraph is from a column titled "Economic Profit vs. Accounting Profit" by Robert L. Bartley on page A17 of the Wall Street Journal of June 2, 2003. Smokers' responses to higher taxes on cigarettes in Alaska are discussed on page 37 of The Greedy Hand' How Taxes Drive Americans Crazy and What to Do About It by Amith Shlaes, published by Random House in 1999. Data on increased revenue after a reduction in the capital gains tax are from The Wall Street Journal of May 14, in an article on page A18 by Arthur Laffer, Lawrence Kudlow, and Stephen Moore, titled "Real Relief: A Capital-Gains Tax Cut."The quotation about rising