to the incentives facing them, just as people do in corporations, in families, and in other human institutions and activities. Government is neither a monolith nor simply the public interest personified. To understand what it does, its incentives and constraints must be taken into account, just as the incentives and constraints of the marketplace must be for those who engage in market transactions. LAW AND ORDER Where government restricts its economic role to that of an enforcer of laws and contracts, some people say that such a policy amounts to "doing nothing." However, what is called "nothing" has often taken centuries to achieve-namely, a reliable framework of laws, within which economic activity can flourish, and without which even vast riches in natural resources may go unused and the people remain much poorer than they need to be. Like the role of prices, the role of a reliable framework of laws may be easier to understand by observing what happens in places where that framework does not exist. Countries whose governments are ineffectual, arbitrary, or corrupt can remain poor despite an abundance of natural resources, because neither foreign nor domestic entrepreneurs want to risk the kinds of large investments needed to develop natural resources into products that bring increased prosperity. A classic example is the African nation of Congo, rich in minerals but poor in every other way. Here is the scene encountered at the airport in its capital city of Kinshasa: Kinshasa is one of the world's poorest cities, so unsafe for arriving crews that they get shuttled elsewhere for overnight stays. Taxiing down the scarred tarmac feels like driving over railroad ties. Managers charge extra to turn on the runway lights at night, and departing passengers can encounter several layers of bribes before boarding. Bolivia is another Third World country where law and order has broken down: The media are full of revelations about police links to drug trafficking and stolen vehicles, nepotism in the force, and the charging of illegal fees for services. Officers on meager salaries have been found to live in mansions. . In poor countries where middle class or wealthy people are targets of widespread violence by criminals or ideologues, costly and extraordinary precautions are necessary for personal safety. Thus fenced and gated private developments with their own security guards are widespread in Brazil, where there is also a large market for armor-plated cars. Private spending on security in Brazil is estimated to substantially exceed public spending on police, and private security guards outnumber policemen by three to one. Whatever the merits or demerits of particular laws, someone must administer those laws-and how efficiently or how honestly that is done can make a huge economic difference. The phrase "the law's delay" goes back at least as far as Shakespeare's time. Such delay imposes costs on those whose investments are idled, whose shipments are held up, and whose ability to plan their economic activities is crippled by red tape and slow-moving bureaucrats. Moreover, bureaucrats' ability to