Undulating gently through pastoral hills 150 miles south of Moscow, the Plava River Valley is a farmer's dream come true. This is the gateway to what Russians call "Chernozym"-"Black Earth Country"-which boasts some of the most fertile soil in Europe, within three hours' drive of a giant, hungry metropolis . . . Black Earth country has the natural wealth to feed an entire nation. But it can barely feed itself. It is hard even to imagine, in a free market economy, a hungry city, dependent on imports of foreign food, when there is extraordinarily fertile farmland not far away. Yet the people on that very fertile farmland were as poor as the city dwellers were hungry. The workers harvesting that land earned the equivalent of about $10 a week, with even this small amount being paid in kind-sacks of potatoes or cucumbers-because of a lack of money. As the mayor of a town in this region said: We ought to be rich. We have wonderful soil. We have the scientific know-how. We have qualified people. But what does it add up to? If nothing else, it adds up to a reason for understanding economics as a means of achieving an efficient allocation of scarce resources which have alternative uses. All that was lacking in Russia was a market to connect the hungry city with the products of the fertile land and a government that would allow such a market to function freely. In some places, local Russian officials forbade the movement of food across local boundary lines, in order to assure low food prices within their own jurisdictions, and therefore local political support for themselves. Again, it is necessary to emphasize that this was not a stupid policy, from the standpoint of officials trying to gain local popularity with consumers by maintaining low food prices. This protected their political careers, however disastrous such policies were for the country as a whole. While systemic causation is in one sense impersonal, in the sense that its outcomes are not specifically predetermined by anyone, "the market" is ultimately a way by which people's individual personal desires are reconciled with one another. Too often a false contrast is made between the impersonal marketplace and the compassionate policies of various government programs. But both systems face the same scarcity of resources and both systems make choices within the constraints of that scarcity. The difference is that one system involves each individual making choices for himself or herself, while the other system involves a smaller number of people making choices for millions of others. The mechanisms of the market are impersonal but the choices made by individuals are as personal as choices made anywhere else. It may be fashionable for journalists to refer to "the whim of the marketplace," as if that were something different from the desires of people, just as it was once fashionable to refer to "production for use, rather than profit"as if profits could be made by producing things that people cannot