letting people choose freely, uninfluenced by politically changed prices. One of the factors in California's periodic water crises, for example, is that California farmers' use of water is subsidized so heavily that its price to farmers is less than one percent of what the same amount of water costs people living in Los Angeles or San Francisco. The net result is that agriculture, which accounts for about 3 percent of the state's output, consumes more than four-fifths of its water. Another consequence of subsidized water is that farmers grow crops requiring great amounts of water, such as rice and cotton, in California's semi-desert climate, where such crops would never be grown if farmers had to pay the real costs of the water they use. Inspiring as it may be to some that California's arid lands have been enabled to produce vast amounts of fruits and vegetables with the aid of subsidized water, those same fruits and vegetables could be produced more cheaply elsewhere with water supplied free of charge from the clouds. The way to tell whether the California produce is worth what it costs to grow is to allow all those costs to be paid by California farmers who compete with farmers in other states that have higher rainfall levels. There is no need for government officials to decide arbitrarily-and categorically- whether it is a good thing or a bad thing for particular crops to be grown in California with water artificially supplied from federal irrigation projects. Such questions can be decided incrementally through price competition in a free market. California is, unfortunately, not unique in this respect. In fact, this is not a peculiarly American problem. Halfway around the world, the government of India provides "almost free electricity and water" to farmers, according to The Economist, encouraging farmers to plant too much "water-guzzling rice," with the result that water tables in the Punjab "are dropping fast." Making anything artificially cheap usually means that it will be wasted, whatever that thing might be and wherever it might be located. From standpoint of the allocation of resources, government should either not tax resources, goods, and services or else tax them all equally, so as to minimize the distortions of choices made by consumers and producers. For similar reasons, particular resources, goods, and services should not be subsidized, even if particular people are subsidized out of humanitarian concern over their being the victims of natural disasters, birth defects, or other misfortunes beyond their control. From a political standpoint, however, politicians win votes by doing special favors for special interests or putting special taxes on whoever or whatever might be unpopular at the moment. The Meaning of Costs" In light of the role of trade-offs and substitutions, it is easier to understand the real meaning of costs as the foregone opportunities to use the same resources elsewhere. Because an economy deals with scarce resources which have alternative uses, every benefit has a cost in the alternative uses that could have been made