a scarce and valuable resource. Their failure to allocate this resource efficiently to its alternative uses was a mistake in economics, though there was no money involved-just dire military consequences. CAUSE AND EFFECT Analyzing economic actions in cause-and-effect terms means examining the logic of the incentives being created, rather than simply the goals being sought. It also means examining the empirical evidence of what actually happens under such incentives. The causation at work in an economy is often systemic interaction, rather than the kind of simple one-way causation involved when one billiard ball hits another billiard ball and knocks it into a pocket. Systemic causation involves more complex reciprocal interactions, such as adding lye to hydrochloric acid and ending up with salty water,' because both chemicals are transformed by their effects on one another, going from being two deadly substances to becoming one harmless one. In an economy as well, the plans of buyers and sellers are transformed as they discover each other's reactions to supply and demand conditions and the resulting price changes that force them to reassess their plans. For example, those who start out planning to buy a mansion at the beach may end up settling for a bungalow further inland, after they discover the high prices of mansions at the beach. Likewise, suppliers sometimes end up selling their goods for less than they paid to buy them or produce them, when the demand is inadequate to get any higher price from the consuming public and the alternative is to get nothing at all for an item that is unsalable at the price originally planned. Systemic Causation Because systemic causation involves reciprocal interactions, rather than one way causation, that in turn reduces the role of individual intentions. As Friedrich Engels put it, "what each individual wills is obstructed by everyone else, and what emerges is something that no one willed." Economics is concerned with what emerges, not what anyone intended. Similar reasoning had appeared even earlier in the writings of Adam Smith, where the benefits of competitive capitalism were said to be "no part" of the capitalist's intention. (That is why Adam Smith had a high opinion of capitalism, despite his low -(1) Do not try this at home. Professional chemists can handle these dangerous chemicals, with appropriate safeguards, in a laboratory but either can be fatal in other hands. opinion of capitalists.) If the stock market closes at 10,463 on a given day, that is the end result of a process of complex interactions among innumerable buyers and sellers of stocks, none of whom may have intended for the market to close at 10,463, even though it was their own actions in pursuit of other intentions which caused it to do so. While causation can sometimes be explained by intentional actions and sometimes by systemic interactions, too often the results of systemic interactions are falsely explained by individual intentions. Just as primitive peoples tended to attribute such things as the swaying of trees in the wind