a two-bedroom apartment in 1939, occupied two apartments with a total of four bedrooms in 1944, and of course two kitchens and two bathrooms. Yet We Were as baffled as everyone else as to why there was suddenly a housing shortage. There was a 9-month wait in 1950, a 23-month wait in 1955 and a 40 month wait by 1958, for example. In short, the longer waits for housing was not due to any less housing in proportion to the population. There was a lessening scarcity but a growing shortage. As incomes in Sweden rose much faster than rents were allowed to rise under rent control laws, more and more people could afford to occupy their own independent housing units, making it harder for others to find places to live, even with a massive, government-sponsored program to build more dwelling units. Before rent control, less than one-fourth of all unmarried adults in Sweden had their own separate housing units in 1940, but that proportion rose until just over half did by 1975. Not only was the actual physical amount of housing no less than before, Sweden was in fact building more housing per person than any other country in the world during this period. Nevertheless, the housing shortage persisted and got worse. As of 1948, there were about 2,400 people on waiting lists for housing in Sweden but, a dozen years later, the waiting list had grown to ten times as many people, despite a frantic building of more housing. When eventually rent control laws were repealed in Sweden, a housing surplus suddenly developed, as rents rose and people curtailed their use of housing as a result. Again, this shows that "shortages" and "surpluses" are matters of price, not matters of physical scarcity, either absolutely or relative to the population. With rent control ended, private developers in Sweden now began building more housing as rents rose-and produced housing more in keeping with what the public wanted, as distinguished from the kind of housing produced by the government under political and bureaucratic incentives. Therefore it was the government-sponsored housing which became vacant so much so as to become a drain on the public treasury. Think of all the needless grief and wasted resources that could have been avoided if the Swedish voters had been familiar with basic economic principles and understood that the source of their housing problems were the very attempts to make housing more "affordable" by rent control. No doubt there were Swedish economists who understood this, but there are seldom enough economists in any country to have enough votes to sway decisions made by politicians. Nor are economists always clear or convincing enough to affect public opinion. During the period when rent control laws were in effect in Australia, they had the same effect as they had in Sweden-many dwelling units with only a single occupant and long waits for others seeking housing. Similarly, a study of housing in New York City found 175,000 apartments where one person