would be true when comparing various other products made of steel to competing products made of wood, aluminum, plastic or other materials. In short, price changes would enable a whole society-indeed, consumers around the world-to adjust automatically to a greater abundance of iron ore, even if 99 percent of those consumers were wholly unaware of the new discovery. Prices not only guide consumers, they guide producers as well. When all is said and done, producers cannot possibly know what millions of different consumers want. All that automobile manufacturers, for example, know is that when they produce cars with a certain combination of features they can sell those cars for a price that covers their production costs and leaves them a profit, but when they manufacture cars with a different combination of features, they don't sell as well. In order to get rid of the unsold cars, they must cut the prices to whatever level is necessary to get them off the dealers' lots, even if that means taking a loss. The alternative would be to take a bigger loss by not selling them at all. While a free market economic system is sometimes called a profit system, it is really a profit-and-loss system-and the losses are equally important for the efficiency of the economy, because they tell the manufacturers what to stop producing. Without really knowing why consumers like one set of features rather than another, producers automatically produce more of what earns a profit and less of what is losing money. That amounts to producing what the consumers want and stopping the production of what they don't want. Although the producers are only looking out for themselves and their companies' bottom line, nevertheless from the standpoint of the economy as a whole the society is using its scarce resources more efficiently because decisions are guided by prices. PRICES AND COSTS The situation we have just examined-where the consumers want A and don't want B-is the simplest example of how prices lead to efficiency in the use of scarce resources. But prices are at least equally important in situation where consumers want both A and B, as well as many other things, some of which require the same ingredients in their production. For example, consumers not only want cheese, they want ice cream and yogurt, as well as other products made from milk. How do prices help the economy to determine how much milk should go to each of these products? In bidding for cheese, ice cream, and yogurt, consumers are in effect also bidding for the milk that produces them. The money than comes in from the sales of these products is what enables the producers to buy more milk to use to continue producing their respective products. When the demand for cheese goes up, cheese-makers bid away some of the milk that before went into making ice cream or yogurt, in order to increase the output of their own product to meet the rising demand. In other words,