World War, cigarettes from Red Cross packages were used as money among the prisoners, producing economic phenomena long associated with money, such as interest rates and Gresham's law.! What makes all these different things money is that people will accept them in payment for the goods and services which actually constitute real wealth. Money is equivalent to wealth for an individual only because other individuals will supply the real goods and services desired in exchange for that money. But, from the standpoint of the national economy as a whole, money is not wealth. It is just a way to transfer wealth or to give people incentives to produce wealth. While money facilitates the production of real wealth-greases the wheels, as it were-this is not to say that its role is inconsequential. Wheels work much better when they are greased. When a monetary system breaks down for one reason or another, and people are forced to resort to barter, the clumsiness of that method quickly becomes apparent to all. In 2002, for example, the monetary system in Argentina broke down, leading to a decline in economic activity and a resort to barter clubs called trueque: Gresham law is that bad money drives good money out of circulation. In the P.O.W. camp. the least popular brands of cigarettes circulated as money. while the most popular brands were smoked. This week the bartering club has pooled its resources to "buy" 220 pounds of bread from a local baker in exchange for half a ton of firewood the club had acquired in previous trades-the baker used the wood to fire his oven. . . . The affluent neighborhood of Palermo hosts a swanky trueque at which antique china might be traded for cuts of prime Argentine beef. Although money itself is not wealth, an absence of a functioning monetary , system can cause losses of real wealth, when transactions are reduced to the crude level of barter. INFLATION The national price level rises for the same reason that prices of particular goods and services rise-namely, that there is more demanded than supplied at a given price. When people have more money, they tend to spend more. Without a corresponding increase in the volume of output, the prices of existing output simply rises because the quantity demanded exceeds the quantity supplied at current prices and people bid against each other when there is a shortage. Whatever the money consists of-sea shells, gold, or whatever-more of it in the national economy means higher prices. This relationship between the total amount of money and the general price level has been seen for centuries. When Alexander the Great began spending the captured treasures of the Persians, prices rose in Greece. Similarly, when the Spaniards removed vast amounts of gold from their colonies in the Western Hemisphere, price levels rose not only in Spain, but across Europe, because the Spaniards used much of their wealth to buy imports from other European countries. Sending their gold to those countries to