go to other places. Few individuals or businesses are going to want to give up what they have been used to doing, especially if they have been successful at it, for the greater good of society as a whole. But, in one way or another, under any economic or political system, they are going to have to be forced to relinquish resources and change what they themselves are doing, if rising standards of living are to be achieved and sustained. The financial pressures of the free market are just one of the ways in which this can be done. Kings or commissars could instead simply order individuals and enterprises to change from doing A to doing B. No doubt other ways of pursuing the same goals are possible, with varying degrees of effectiveness and efficiency. What is crucial, however, is that it must be done. Put differently, the fact that some people, regions, or industries are being "left behind" or are not getting their "fair share" of the general prosperity is not necessarily a problem with a political solution, as abundant as such proposed solutions may be, especially in election years. However more pleasant and uncomplicated it might be if all sectors of the economy grew simultaneously at the same lockstep pace, that has never been the reality in any dynamic economy. As an entrepreneur in India put it: The history of how country after country went from poverty to prosperity over the past two hundred years teaches us that the transformation was generally powered by one sector, which became the engine of its economic growth. In Britain, it was textiles; in the United States, the industrial revolution was led by the railways. Timber and timber products were responsible for Sweden's takeoff; milk and dairy products did the same for Denmark. Chapter 9 Productivity and Pay Genius begins great works; labor alone finishes them. -JOSEPH JOUBERT In discussing the allocation of resources, we have so far been concerned largely with inanimate resources. But people are part of the economy too, and not just as consumers. People are a key part of the inputs which produce output. Most people are not volunteers, so they must be either forced to work or paid to work, since the work has to be done in any case, if we are to live at all, much less enjoy the various amenities that go into our modern standard of living. In a free society, people are paid to work. How much they are paid depends on many things. Stories about the astronomical pay of professional athletes, movie stars, or chief executives of corporations often cause journalists and others to question how much this or that person is "really" worth. Fortunately, since we know from Chapter 2 that there is no such thing as "real" worth, we can save all the time and energy that others put into such unanswerable questions. Instead, we can ask a more down-to-earth question: What. determines how much people get paid for