attempts to make housing more "affordable" by rent control. No doubt there were Swedish economists who understood this, but there are seldom enough economists in any country to have enough votes to sway decisions made by politicians. Nor are economists always clear or convincing enough to affect public opinion. During the period when rent control laws were in effect in Australia, they had the same effect as they had in Sweden-many dwelling units with only a single occupant and long waits for others seeking housing. Similarly, a study of housing in New York City found 175,000 apartments where one person occupied 4 or more rooms-mostly elderly people in rent-controlled apartments. In San Francisco, a study in 2001 showed that 49 percent of that city's rent-controlled apartments had only a single occupant, while a severe housing shortage in the city had thousands of people living at considerable distances and making long commutes to their jobs in San Francisco. In the normal course of events, people's demand for housing space changes over a lifetime. Their demand for space usually increases when they get married and have children. But, years later, after the children have grown up and moved away, the parents' demand for space tends to decline and it often declines yet again after a spouse dies and a widow or widower moves into smaller quarters or goes to live with relatives. In this way, a society's total stock of housing is shared and circulated among people according to their changing individual demands at different stages of their lives. The individuals themselves do not do this out of a sense of cooperation, but because of the prices-rents in this case-which confront them. In a free market, these prices are based on the value that other tenants put on housing. Young couples with a growing family are often willing to bid more for housing, even if that means buying fewer consumer goods and services, in order to have enough money to pay for additional housing space. Parents may go out to restaurants or movies less often, or wait longer to buy new clothes or new cars, in order that each child may have his or her own bedroom. But, once the children are grown and gone, such sacrifices may no longer make sense, when additional other amenities can now be enjoyed by reducing the amount of housing space being rented. Given the crucial role of prices in this process, suppression of the process by rent control laws leaves elderly people with little incentive to vacate apartments that they would normally vacate, if that would result in a significant reduction in rent, leaving them more money with which to improve their living standards in other respects. Moreover, the chronic housing shortages which accompany rent control greatly increase the time and effort required to search for a new and smaller apartment, while reducing the financial reward for finding one. In short, rent control reduces the rate of housing turnover. New York City has had rent