a very risky strategy. The only thing it can be sure of is losing money initially. Whether it will ever recover enough extra profits to make the gamble payoff in the long run is problematical. Whether it can do so and escape the anti-trust laws is even more problematical-and these laws can lead to millions of dollars in fines and/or the dismemberment of the Company. But, even if our would-be predator manages somehow to overcome these problems, it is by no means clear that eliminating all existing competitors will mean eliminating competition. Even when a rival firm has been forced into bankruptcy, its physical equipment and the skills of the people who once made it viable do not vanish into thin air. A new entrepreneur can come along and acquire both-perhaps at low distress sale prices for both the physical equipment and the unemployed workers, enabling the new competitor to have lower costs than the old and hence be a more dangerous rival. As an illustration of what can happen, back in 1933 The Washington Post went bankrupt, though not because of predatory pricing. In any event, this bankruptcy did not cause the printing presses, the building, or the reporters to disappear. All were acquired by publisher Eugene Meyer, at a price that was less than one-fifth of what he had bid unsuccessfully for the same newspaper just four years earlier. In the decades that followed, under new ownership and management, The Washington Post grew to become the largest newspaper in the nation's capital, while its rivals disappeared one by one, until it was the only major newspaper in town by 1978. By the early twenty first century, The Washington Post had one of the five largest circulations in the country. Bankruptcy can eliminate particular owners and managers, but it does not eliminate competition in the form of new people, who can either take over an existing bankrupt enterprise or start their own new business from scratch in the same industry. Destroying a particular competitor without destroying competition can be an expensive endeavor, with little prospect of recouping the losses by subsequent monopoly profits. BRAND NAMES Brand names are often thought to be just ways of being able to charge a higher price for the same product by persuading people through advertising that there is a quality difference, when in fact there is no such difference. In other words, brand names are considered to be useless things from the standpoint of the consumer's interests. As India's Prime Minister Nehru once asked, "Why do we need nineteen brands of toothpaste?" In reality, brand names serve a number of purposes from the standpoint of the consumer. Brands are a way of economizing on scarce knowledge, and of forcing producers to compete in quality and price. When you drive into a town you have never seen before and want to get some gasoline for your car or to eat a hamburger, you have no direct way of knowing what is in the gasoline