Product of Egypt or Malaysia, how can that fail to make Americans poorer? 7. What economic difference does it make when the level of honesty in one country is very different from that in another country? 8. In the absence of restrictions on international trade, would low-wage countries tend to take jobs away from high-wage countries through lower production costs that would allow them to sell at lower prices? Explain. 9. The United States has often been a "debtor nation" owing more to people in other countries than people in other countries owe to Americans, while Switzerland has often been a "creditor nation," to whom others owe more to the Swiss than the Swiss owe to others. What tends to lead to this difference and is it economically beneficial or harmful to Americans or Swiss? 10. What were the causes and effects of a large worldwide decline in international trade in the 1930s compared to the 1920s? PART VII: SPECIAL ECONOMIC ISSUES 1. Costly safety devices or policies have often been defended on grounds that "if it saves just one life, it is worth it." What is the problem with that reasoning? 2. What are some of the reasons why different prices are charged for things that are physically identical? 3. Some people respond to economic analysis by saying, "But there are also non-economic values to consider." Discuss. 4. What is the point of having different brands of the same product if in fact all the brands are of pretty much the same quality and sell for about the same price? What would happen in this situation if laws did away with brands, so that each producer could only identify what the product was, but not who made it? 5. How have business entrepreneurs usually been seen by free market economists over the past two centuries? How have businesses seen the free market? 6. Explain how the presence or absence of the profit motive affects an organization's likelihood of achieving the purpose for which it was created, to the maximum extent possible with the resources at its disposal. 7. What are the problems with the "trickle-down theory"? 8. For about a century-from the 1770s to the 1870s-most of the leading economists believed that the relative prices of goods reflected their relative costs of production, especially the amount of labor they required. What are some of the problems with that theory? 9. When fighting a war leads to a diversion of a substantial amount of resources from civilian to military purposes, most people would be more concerned to see that the poor could still get bread than that the rich could still get caviar. Why then not put price controls on bread but not on caviar? 10. Nobel Prize economist F. A. Hayek said: "We shall not grow wiser before we learn that much that we have done was very foolish." What do you consider to be the three most foolish policies discussed in this book? Would you have considered those