by having to keep your demands within the limits of your Own pocketbook is very different from seeing your desires for government benefits thwarted by the rival claims of some other group. Market rationing limits the amount of your claims on the output of others to what your own productivity has created, while political rationing limits your claims by the competing claims and clout of others. Incremental Substitution Because economic resources are not only scarce but have alternative uses, the efficient use of these resources requires both consumers and producers to make trade-offs and substitutions. Prices provide the incentives for doing so. When the price of oranges goes up, some consumers switch to tangerines. When bacon becomes more expensive, some consumers switch to ham. When the cost of a vacation at the beach rises, some people decide to go on a cruise instead. Note that what is happening here is not just substitution-it is incremental substitution. Not everybody stops eating oranges when they become more pricey. Some people continue to eat the same number of oranges they always ate, some cut back a little, some cut back a lot, and others forget about oranges completely and go on to some other fruit. When the price of oranges rises, it is very likely because the number of oranges demanded at the existing price exceeds the number of oranges actually available. Something has to give. Incremental substitution, because of Price increases, causes the loss to be minimized by being borne more by those who are relatively indifferent as between oranges and other substitutes, rather than by those who are so devoted to oranges that they will simply pay the higher prices and continue to eat the same number of oranges as before, Cutting back somewhere else in their budget to offset the additional money spent on oranges. Incremental substitutions take place in production as well as consumption. Petroleum, for example, can be used to make heating oil or gasoline, among many other things. More petroleum is turned into heating oil during the winter, when the demand for heating oil is greatest, and more into gasoline during the summer, when many people are doing more driving to recreational areas. This is not a total substitution, since some petroleum is turned into both products (and many others) throughout the year. It is incremental substitution-somewhat more of A at the cost of somewhat less of B. Prices facilitate this kind of substitution, as they reflect incrementally changing demands, leading to incremental changes in the amount supplied. Trade-offs and substitution can take place either intentionally or systemically. An intentional trade-off has been made by LTV, a steel manufacturer in Cleveland, whose equipment has been set up to shift automatically from oil to natural gas when the price of oil rises above a given level. Automobiles have also been adjusted intentionally by becoming more fuel-efficient. Thus, the average American car drove 2,000 miles more in 1998 than in 1973, but used about 200 gallons less gasoline than