often they are the very same people at different stages of their lives. An absolute majority of those Americans who were in the bottom 20 percent in income in 1975 were also in the top 20 percent at some point over the next 16 years. This is not surprising. After 16 years, people usually have had 16 years more experience, perhaps including on-the-job training or formal education. Those in business or the professions have had 16 years in which to build up a clientele. It would be surprising if they were not able to earn more money as a result. It is not uncommon for most of the people in the top 5 percent of income-earners to be 45 years old and up. None of this is unique to the United States. A study of eleven European countries found similar patterns. One-half of the people in Greece and two thirds of the people in Holland who were below the poverty line in a given year had risen above that line within two years. A study in Britain found similar patterns when following thousands of individuals over a six-year period. At the end of six years, nearly two-thirds of the individuals who were initially in the bottom 20 percent in income had risen out of that bracket. Thirty-nine percent moved up and out of it in just one year and only 5 percent remained in the bottom 20 percent in income for the whole six years. Studies in New Zealand likewise showed significant rises of individuals out of the bottom 20 percent of income earners in just one year and of course larger numbers rising out of this bracket over a period of several years. There are similar patterns in Canada. When some people are born, live, and die in poverty, while others are born, live, and die in luxury, that is a very different situation from one in which young people have not yet reached the income level of older people, such as their parents. But the kind of statistics often cited in the media, and even in academia, typically do not distinguish these very different situations. Moreover, those who publicize such statistics usually proceed as if they are talking about differences between classes rather than differences between age brackets. Because of the movement of people from one income bracket to another over the years, the degree of income inequality over a lifetime is not the same as the degree of income inequality in any given year. A study in New Zealand found that the degree of income inequality over a working lifetime was less than the degree of inequality in any given year during those lifetimes. Much discussion of "the rich" and "the poor"-or of the top or bottom 10 or 20 percent-fail to say just what kinds of incomes qualify to be in these categories. As of 2001, a household income of $84,000 was enough to put those who earned it in the top 20 percent of Americans.