enormous differences in results between the two kinds of economies. Agents As a scarce resource, knowledge can be bought and sold in various ways in a market economy. The hiring of agents is essentially the purchase of the agent's knowledge to guide one's own decisions. Real estate agents commonly charge 6 percent of the sale price of a home and literary agents typically charge 15 percent of a writer's royalties. Why would a writer surrender 15 percent of his royalties, unless 85 percent of what the agent can get for him is worth more than 100 percent of what he can get for himself? And why would a publisher be willing to pay more to an agent than to a writer for the same manuscript? Similarly, why would a home-owner accept 6 percent less for his house when sold through a real estate agent, unless the agent could either get a higher price or a quicker sale, both of which amount to the same thing, since delay and its accompanying stresses are both costs to the home-owner? Let's go back to a basic principle of economics: The same physical object does not necessarily have the same value to different people. This applies to an author's manuscript as well as to a house, a painting or an autograph from a rock star. What a literary agent knows is where a particular manuscript is likely to have its greatest value. If it is a cookbook, the agent knows which publishers and which editors have the knowledge and the connections to promote such a book in places that are very interested in such things: gourmet magazines, cooking programs on television, and the like. This cookbook would be far more valuable to such editors and publishers than to others who specialize in technology, social issues, or other subjects, or to editors whose knowledge of food does not extend much beyond hamburgers and fried chicken. Even if an agent is not able to get any more money out of a given publisher than a writer could have gotten, the agent knows which publishers are most likely to pay top dollar for a given kind of book, because that particular publisher can probably sell more copies. A real estate agent is similarly more knowledgeable than the average home-owner as to the channels through which a given home can be marketed most quickly and for the highest sale price Often there are little defects in the home that need to be corrected, or cosmetic changes that need to be made, before the house goes on the market. An agent who keeps up with changing fashions in homes and their furnishings is not only more likely to know what these things are but also whether or to what extent money spent upgrading the house will be recouped in a higher sale price, or whether it is better to sell the house "as is" as a bargain "fixer-upper." The agent is also more likely to be knowledgeable as to