would make no sense to continue trading. Nor is it necessary for government officials or experts to determine whether both sides are gaining. Most international trade, like most domestic trade, is done by millions of individuals, each of whom can determine whether the Item purchased is worth what it cost and is preferable to what is available , from others. As for jobs, before the free-trade agreement was passed, there were dire predictions of "a giant sucking sound" as jobs would be sucked out of the United States to Mexico and other countries with lower wage rates after the free-trade agreement went into effect. In reality, the number of American jobs increased after the agreement and the unemployment rate in the United States fell over the next seven years from more than seven percent down to four percent, the lowest level seen in decades. Before NAFTA was passed, Congressman David Bonior of Michigan warned: "If the agreement with Mexico receives congressional approval, Michigan's auto industry will eventually vanish." But what actually happened was that employment in the automobile industry increased by more than 100,000 jobs over the next six years. Such results clearly surprised many people. But it should not have surprised anyone who understood economics. Let's go back to square one. What happens when a given country, in isolation, becomes more prosperous? It tends to buy more because it has more to buy with. And what happens when it buys more? There are more jobs created for workers producing the additional goods and services. Make that two countries and the principle remains the same. There is no fixed number of jobs that the two countries must fight over. If they both become more prosperous, they will both tend to create more jobs. The only question is whether international trade tends to make both countries more prosperous. In the case of the post- NAFTA years, jobs increased by the millions in Mexico-at the same time when jobs were increasing by the millions in the United States. The basic facts about international trade are not difficult to understand. What is difficult to untangle are all the misconceptions and jargon which so often clutter up the discussion. The great U.S. Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes said, "we need to think things instead of words." Nowhere is that more important than when discussing international trade, where there are so many misleading and emotional words used to describe and confuse things that are not very difficult to understand in themselves. For example, the terminology used to describe an export surplus as a "favorable" balance of trade and an import surplus as an "unfavorable" balance of trade goes back for centuries. At one time, it was widely believed that an import surplus impoverished a nation because the difference between imports and exports had to be paid in gold, and the loss of gold was seen as a loss of national wealth. However, as early as 1776, Adam Smith's classic The Wealth of Nations argued