houses that existed in the middle of that century. Merely counting how many houses there were at both times does not tell us how much the production of housing had increased. Just between 1983 and 2000, the median square feet in a new single-family house in the United States increased from 1,585 to 2,076. While these are problems which can be left for professional economists and statisticians to try to wrestle with, it is important for others to at least be aware of these problems, so as not to be misled by politicians or media pundits who throw statistics around for one purpose or another. Comparisons over Time Over a period of generations, the goods and services which constitute national output change so much that statistical comparisons can become practically meaningless, because they are comparing apples and oranges. At the beginning of the twentieth century, the national output did not include any airplanes, television sets, computers or nuclear power plants. At the end of that century, national output did not include many typewriters, slide rules (once essential for engineers, before there were electronic calculators), or a host of equipment and supplies once widely used in connection with horses that formerly provided the basic transportation of the country. What then, does it mean to say that the Gross National Product was X percent larger in the year 2000 than in 1900, when it consisted of very different things? It may mean something to say that output this year was 5 percent higher or 3 percent lower than it was last year because it consists of much the same things in both years. But the longer the time span involved, the more such statistics approach meaninglessness. 'International Comparisons The same problems which apply when comparing a given country's output versus time can also apply when comparing the output of two very different countries at the same time. If some Caribbean nation's output consists largely of bananas and other tropical crops, while some Scandinavian country's output consists more of industrial products and crops more typical of cold climates, how is it possible to compare totals made up of such differing items? This is not just comparing apples and oranges, it may be comparing cars and sugar. Statistical comparisons of incomes in Western and non-Western nations are affected by the same age differences that exist within nations. For example, the median ages in Afghanistan, Yemen, and Angola are all below twenty, while the median ages in Germany and Italy is about forty. Such huge age gaps overstate the real significance of some international differences in income. Just as nature provides-free of charge-the heat required to grow pineapples or bananas in tropical countries, while other countries would run up huge heating bills growing these same fruits in greenhouses, so nature provides free for the young many things that can be very costly to provide for older people. Enormously expensive medications and treatments for dealing with the many physical problems that come with aging are all