quality and additional features? No one calls it inflation when someone who has been buying Chevrolets in years past begins to buy Cadillacs and pays more money for them. Why then call it inflation when a Chevrolet begins to have features that were once reserved for Cadillacs and its costs rise to levels once charged for Cadillacs? Another Source of inaccuracy in measuring inflation is in the things that are included and not included in the statistics used to create an index of inflation, such as the Consumer Price Index. Everything cannot be included in an index, both because of the enormous time and money this would require and because "everything" itself changes Over time with the creation of new products and the disappearance of old ones. Instead, the prices of a collection of commonly purchased items are followed over the years, measuring how much those particular prices rise or fall. The problem with this is that what is commonly used depends on prices. Within living memory, television sets were so expensive that only rich people could afford them. So were air-conditioned cars and portable computers. At that time, no one would have dreamed of including such rare luxuries in a price index to measure the cost of living of the average American. Only after their prices fell to a fraction of what they once were did such items become commonplace possessions. What this means is that the price indexes missed all the falling prices of such things in the years before they became widely used, while counting all the rising prices of other things that were already widely used. In short, these indexes were biased upward in their estimates of inflation. Because government policies and private contracts were often based on the cost of living, as measured by these indexes, huge sums of money changed hands across the country, as a result of exaggerated estimates of inflation. Social Security recipients, for example, received billions of dollars in cost-of living increases in their pension checks because of an inflation that was in part a statistical artifact, rather than a real increase in the prices of buying what they had always bought. This was a factor in creating an official panel of distinguished scholars to revise the indexes. But, no matter how distinguished the individuals or how conscientiously they worked, the task they were attempting could never achieve precision, even if it could be made more realistic than it was. When considering particular markets for particular products, we are dealing with familiar concrete things, whether hamburgers or hotels, busses or barbecues. But when discussing national output as a whole, which consists of innumerable very different things that can only be added up abstractly, there is much more room for confusion by some and manipulation of that confusion by others. The money supply and the banking system are key features of the national economy. Like so many other things, banking looks easy from the outside simply take in deposits and lend much