to a level that will cover costs and provide a rate of return sufficient to compensate investors without attracting additional competing investment. In an economy where investors are always on the lookout for higher profits, an inflated rate of profit in the Insurance industry would tend to cause new insurance companies to be created, in order to share in this bonanza. Sometimes this process can overshoot the mark, as periods of unusually high profits are followed by periods of unusually low profits, due to the additional competition that is attracted. Insurance principles often conflict with political principles. For example, arguments are often made-and laws passed accordingly-that it is "unfair" that a safe young driver is charged a higher premium because other young drivers have higher accident rates or that young male drivers are charged more than female drivers the same age for similar reasons, or that people with similar driving records are charged different premiums according to where they live. A City Attorney in Oakland, California, called a press conference in which he asked: "Why should a young man in the Fruitvale pay 30 percent more for insurance" than someone living in another community. "How can this be fair?" he demanded. Running through such political arguments is the notion that it is wrong for people to be penalized for things that are not their fault. But insurance is about risk-and risks are greater when you live where your car is more likely to be stolen, vandalized, or wrecked in a collision with local drag racers. These are all risks that differ from one place to another. Forcing insurance companies to charge the same premiums to groups of people with different risks means that premiums must rise over all, with safer groups subsidizing those who are either more dangerous in themselves or who live where they are vulnerable to more dangerous other people. In the case of automobile insurance, this means that more unsafe drivers can afford to be on the road, so that their victims pay the highest and most unnecessary price of all in injuries and deaths. Government programs that deal with risk are often analogized to insurance, or may even be officially called "insurance" without in fact being insurance. For example, federal disaster relief in the United States helps victims of floods, hurricanes and other natural disasters to recover and rebuild. But, unlike insurance, it does not reduce the over-all risks. Often people rebuild homes and businesses in the well-known paths of hurricanes and floods, often to the applause of the media for their "courage." But the financial risks created are not paid by those who create them, as with insurance, but are instead paid by the taxpayers. In short, there is now more risk than if there were no disaster relief available and more risk than if private insurance companies were charging these people premiums which cover the full cost of their risky behavior. Sometimes the government subsidizes insurance for earthquakes or other disasters for which private