most by minimum wage laws are those who are younger, less experienced, and less skilled. This pattern has been found in New Zealand, France, Canada, the Netherlands, and the United States, for example. As in other cases, a "surplus" is a price phenomenon, just as "shortages" are. Unemployed workers are not surplus in the sense of being useless or in the sense that there is no work around that needs doing. Most of these workers are perfectly capable of producing goods and services, even if not to the same extent as more skilled workers. The unemployed are made idle by wage rates artificially set above the level of their productivity. Those who are idled in their youth are of course prevented from acquiring the job skills and experience which could make them more productive-and therefore higher earners-later on. Although most modern industrial societies have minimum wage laws, not all do. Switzerland and Hong Kong have been among the exceptions-and both have had very low unemployment rates. In 2003, The Economist magazine reported: "Switzerland's unemployment neared a five-year high of3.9% in February." Back in 1991, when Hong Kong was still a British colony, its "unemployment rate fell to a seasonally adjusted 1.4% in the three months ended Nov. 3O-the lowest level in 10 months, easing from 1.3 a year earlier and dropping sharply from 1.8% in the preceding three months," according to the Wall Street Journal. Although Hong Kong still did not have a minimum wage law at the end of the twentieth century, in 1997 new amendments to its labor law under China's rule mandated many new benefits for workers. This imposed increase in labor costs was followed, predictably, by a higher unemployment rate that reached 7.3 percent in 2002-not high by European standards but a multiple of what it had been for years. Minimum wage rates in Europe tend generally to be set higher than in the United States, and European countries tend to have correspondingly higher unemployment rates than the United States-and job growth rates only a fraction of the American rate. A belated recognition of the connection between minimum wage laws and unemployment has caused some countries to allow their real minimum wage levels to be eroded by inflation, avoiding the political risks of trying to repeal these laws explicitly. Among 11 million Americans earning at or near the minimum wage in 2001, just over half were from 16 to 24 years of age. Just over half worked part time. Yet political campaigns to increase the minimum wage often talk in terms of providing "a living wage" sufficient to support a family of four such families as most minimum wage workers do not have and would be ill advised to have before they reach the point where they can feed and clothe their children. The huge financial, political, emotional, and ideological investment of various groups in issues revolving around minimum wage laws means that dispassionate analysis is not always the norm. Moreover, the statistical complexities of separating