of doing business can survive. Like discussions of fairness in other contexts besides economics, this kind of reasoning ignores the costs imposed on third parties-in this case, the consumers who pay needlessly high prices to keep less efficient businesses operating, using scarce resources which have more valuable alternative uses. Some people consider it a valid criticism of corporations that they are "just in business to make profits." By this kind of reasoning, workers are just working to earn their pay. In the process, however, they produce all the things that give their contemporaries the highest standard of living the world has known. What matters is not the motivation but the results. In the case of business, the real question is: What are the preconditions for earning a profit? One preconditions is that profit-seeking corporations cannot squander scarce resources the way Soviet enterprises did. Corporations operating in a market economy have to pay for all their inputs-whether labor, raw materials, or electricity-and they have to pay as much as others are willing to bid for them. Then they have to sell their own end product at a price as low as their competitors are charging. If they fail to do both, they fail to make a profit. And if they keep on failing to make a profit, either the management will be replaced or the whole business will be replaced by some competitor who is more efficient. Sometimes the charge is made that profits are short-run gains, with the implication that they come at the expense of longer-term considerations. But future values are reflected in the present value of a business' assets. A factory that runs full blast to make a profit today, while neglecting the maintenance and repair of its machinery will immediately see a decline in the value of its property and of its stockholders' stock. It is in the absence of a profit-and-Ioss economy that there are few incentives to maintain the long-run productivity of an industrial enterprise or a collective farm, as in the Soviet Union. What happens to the enterprise after the current management's tenure is over is of little concern in a system where there are no profits and no present values to influence decisions. Non-Profit Organizations We have seen that the role of profit-seeking businesses is better understood when they are recognized as profit-and-Ioss businesses, with all the pressures and incentives created by these dual potentialities. By the same token, what are called "non-profit organizations" can be better understood when they are seen as non-profit and non-loss institutions-that is, institutions which operate free of the constraints of a bottom line. This does not mean that non-profit organizations have unlimited money. It does mean that, with whatever money they do have, non-profit organizations are under very little pressure to achieve their institutional goals to the maximum extent possible with the resources at their disposal. Those who supply those resources include the general public, who cannot closely monitor what happens to their donations or their taxes,