supply- so that they went to lose students who actually wanted to read them, rather than to all those who would have taken them if they had been handed out free of charge. doing. At worst, economics is seen as a needlessly narrow, if not morally warped, way of looking at the world. Such condemnations of economics are due to the fundamental fact that economics is the study of the use of scarce resources which have alternative uses. We might all be happier in a world where there were no such constraints to force us into choices and trade-offs that we would rather not face. But that is not the world that human beings live in-or have ever lived in, during thousands of years of recorded history. In the world that people live in, and are likely to live in for centuries to come, trade offs are inescapable. Even if we refuse to make a choice, circumstances will make choices for us, as we run out of resources for many important things that we could have had, if only we had taken the trouble to weigh alternatives. MARKETS AND GREED "Greed" is seldom defined. Virtually everyone would prefer to get a higher price for what he sells and pay a lower price for what he buys. Would you pay a dollar for a newspaper that was available for fifty cents? Or offer to work for half of what an employer was willing to pay you? Would adding a string of zeros to prices or salaries change the principle or the definition of greed? It is hard to see why it should. But, if everybody is greedy, then the word is virtually meaningless. If it refers to people who desire far more money than most others would aspire to, then the history of most great American fortunes-Ford, Rockefeller, Carnegie, etc.-suggests that the way to amass vast amounts of wealth is to figure out some way to provide goods and services at lower prices, not higher prices. Back in the nineteenth century, Richard Sears was ferociously determined to overtake Montgomery Ward, the world's largest retailer at that time, and worked tirelessly for incredible hours toward that end, sometimes taking risks that bordered on the reckless. Sears sought out every way of cutting costs, so that he could undercut Ward's prices, and every way of attracting Customers away from all his rivals. He did all this, not because he did not have enough money to live on, but because he wanted more-and he wanted his company to be number one. If that is our definition of "greed," then he Was greedy. More important, in this case as in many others, it was precisely such greed that led to lower prices. That was how Sears overtook Montgomery Ward and replaced it as the leading retailer in the country at the beginning of the twentieth century. In later years, that is how Wal- Mart overtook Sears. Those who condemn greed may espouse "non-economic values." But