investors, when they convinced that they can improve its performance, than it is to existing owners. These outside investors can therefore offer existing stockholders more for their stock than it is currently worth and still make a profit, if that stock's value later rises to the level expected when existing management is replaced by better managers. For example, if the stock is selling in the market for $50 a share under inefficient management, outside investors can start buying it up at $75 a share until they own a controlling interest in the corporation. After using that control to fire existing managers and replace them with a more efficient management team, the value of the stock may then rise to $100 a share. While this profit is what motivates the investors, from the standpoint of the economy as a whole what matters is that such a rise in stock prices usually means that either the business is now serving more customers, or offering them better quality or lower prices, or is operating at lower cost-or some combination of these things. Thus profits and losses work together in a market economy to replace personnel, products and whole companies and industries with better alternatives. The net effect of achieving higher levels of efficiency is a higher standard of living for the consuming public. Moreover, this process is never ending because its problems can never be solved once and for all. Changes in technology, in the company's internal personnel and in the surrounding economy and society present ever-changing challenges to be dealt with, all under the constant threat of losses, as well as opportunities for profit. CHANGING CONDITIONS The Great Depression of the 1930s left many business leaders very cautious about expanding their operations, especially if this required borrowing money that might be hard to repay if the economy turned down. Even highly profitable businesses could decide to save their money for a rainy day, rather than risk it in new ventures. Against this background, it is not surprising that the dramatic changes in the American economy and society between the Great Depression of the 1930s and the booming prosperity that began after World War II were perceived very differently by different business leaders. Fear that a new depression might be coming caused the managements of Montgomery Ward and A & P to be reluctant to pay high prices for suburban locations for new stores, while Sears and Safeway plunged ahead with expansion into such areas, to which much of the most affluent population was now moving. In this case, those who gambled won and those who played it safe lost. In other cases under other circumstances, those who expanded met disaster. The W. Grant variety store chain, once one of the biggest retailers in America during the first half of the twentieth century, became in the 1970s one of the biggest bankruptcies in the history of the country, after financing a costly expansion which did not work out. Grocery stores and department stores