investment that turns over much more slowly. Companies that made the Fortune magazine list of the 500 largest companies in America averaged "a return on revenue of a penny on the dollar" in 2002, compared to "6 cents in, 2000, the peak profit year." Profits on sales and profits on investment are not merely different concepts. They can move in opposite directions. One of the keys to the rise to dominance of the A & P grocery chain in the 1920s was a conscious decision by " the head of the company to cut profit margins on sales, in order to increase the profit rate on investment. With the new and lower prices made possible by selling with lower profits per item, A & P was able to attract greatly increased numbers of customers, making far more total profit because of the increased volume of sales. Making a profit of only a few cents on the dollar on sales, but with the inventory turning over nearly 30 times a year, A & p's profit rate on investment soared. This low price and high volume strategy set a pattern that spread to other grocery chains and to other kinds of enterprises as well. In a later era, huge supermarkets were able to shave the profit margin on sales still thinner, because of even higher volumes, enabling them to displace A & P from industry leadership by charging still lower prices. COSTS OF PRODUCTION Since profits are the difference between what consumers pay and what the products cost to produce and distribute, it is important to be very clear about those costs. Unfortunately, costs are misconceived almost as much as profits. Economies of Scale First of all, there is no such thing as "the" cost of producing a given product or service. Henry Ford proved long ago that the cost of producing an automobile was very different when you produced 100 cars a year than when you produced 100,000. With a mass market for automobiles, it paid to invest in expensive mass production machinery, whose cost per car would turn out to be modest when spread out over a huge number of automobiles. But, if you sold only half as many cars as you expected, then the cost of that machinery per car would be twice -as much. It has been estimated that the minimum amount of automobile production required to achieve efficient production levels today runs into the hundreds of thousands. Back in 1896, the largest automobile manufacturer in the United States produced just six cars a year. At that level of output, with n average of two months of work required for producing each car, only the truly rich could afford to buy an automobile. It was Henry Ford whose mass production methods brought the cost of producing cars down within the price range of ordinary Americans. Similar principles apply in other industries. It does not cost as much to deliver a hundred cartons of milk to one supermarket as