graphs and equations may not. In keeping with the nature of Basic Economic as an introduction to economics for the general public, the usual footnotes or end-notes are left out. However, those who wish to check up on some of the surprising facts they will learn about here can find the sources listed at the end of the book. That will also be a place for those who simply wish to find other books and articles to read, in order to explore further on some subject that they find intriguing. For instructors who are using Basic Economics as a textbook in their courses, some essay questions have been added at the back of the book. These questions may also be useful to parents who are homeschooling their children. While it is advisable to understand the role of prices in a market economy before going on to other subjects, each chapter of this book has been written to stand alone, so that these chapters may be read in whatever order your own interest leads you to prefer. Whether you are reading Basic Economics for a course or just for your own understanding of the economy, it has been written with the thought that it should be not only a relaxed experience, but also an enjoyable one. THOMAS SOWELL Hoover Institution Stanford University (1) 'Much as I might like to take credit for all this information, I must admit that my research assistant, Na Liu, did most of the hard work. Chapter 1 What Is Economics? You can't have it all Where would you put it? -ANN LANDERS Virtually everyone agrees on the importance of economics, but there is far less agreement on just what economics is. Among the many misconceptions of economics is that it is something that tells you how to make money or run a business or predict the ups and downs of the stock market. But economics is not personal finance or business administration, and predicting the ups and downs of the stock market has yet to be reduced to a set of dependable principles. To know what economics is, we must first know what an economy is. Perhaps most of us think of an economy as a system for the production and distribution of the goods and services we use in everyday life. That is true as far as it goes, but it does not go far enough. The Garden of Eden was a system for the production and distribution of goods and services, but it was not an economy, because everything was available in unlimited abundance. Without scarcity, there is no need to economize-and therefore no economics. A distinguished British economist named Lionel Robbins gave the classic definition of economics: Economics is the study of the use of scarce resources which have alternative uses. Some optimists have said that we now live in "an era of abundance" and some pessimists have said that we are entering "an era of scarcity." Both are wrong. The wide range