defense" can be-and has been-stretched to include products only tangentially related to military necessity. Such products can acquire protection from international competition under a national defense label for purely self-serving reasons. In short, while the argument for international trade restrictions for the sake of national defense can be valid, whether it is or is not valid for a particular industry in a particular country at a particular time depends on the actual circumstances of that industry, that country, and that time. "Dumping" A. Common argument for government protection against a competitor in other countries is that the latter is not competing "fairly" but is instead "dumping" its products on the market at prices below their costs of production. The argument is that this is being done to drive the domestic producers out of business, letting the foreign producer take over the market, after which prices will be raised to monopolistic levels. In response to this argument, governments have passed "anti-dumping" laws, which ban, restrict, or heavily tax the products of foreign companies declared to be guilty of this practice. Everything in this argument depends on whether or not the foreign producer is in fact selling goods below their costs of production. As already noted in Chapters 6 and 7, determining production cost is not easy in practice, even for a firm operating within the same country as the government agencies that are trying to determine its costs. For government officials in Europe to try to determine the production costs of a company located in Southeast Asia is even more problematical, especially when they are simultaneously investigating many dumping charges involving many other companies scattered around the world. All that is easy is for domestic producers to bring such charges when imports are taking away some of their customers. Given the virtual impossibility of determining whether imported goods are in fact being sold below their costs of production, thousands of miles away and in very different economic conditions, officials in charge of administering anti-dumping laws may rely on whether an imported good is being sold for less abroad than it sells for in its country of origin, or they may simply hazard a guess as to whether it is being sold below cost. Since this whole procedure is being carried out in response to complaints from domestic producers, the path of least resistance politically is to declare that dumping has occurred. But here, as elsewhere, the seemingly simple concept of "cost" becomes much more complex in practice. Since there are economies of scale, the Thai producer's costs when selling huge numbers of mountain bikes in Europe were unlikely to be as high as the costs of other producers selling much smaller numbers of mountain bikes within Thailand, where there was far less demand for such a luxury item from a poorer and smaller population. Indeed, this Thai producer's own costs of selling small numbers of mountain bikes in Thailand were likely to be higher per bike than the costs of selling