in the European Union countries, or saves jobs in one industry at the expense of more jobs in other industries, as in the case of the American steel tariffs. International trade is one way of sharing in the advantages that other countries have in producing particular products. Together with international investments, this is also a way to share in the technology and organizational advances made in other countries, as well as in agricultural produce transplanted from other parts of the world, such as the rubber transplanted to Malaysia and the cocoa transplanted to Ghana-with each of these countries becoming the world's leading producer of their respective transplanted products at one time. Perhaps the most important international transplants have been human beings. The vast majority of the populations of the Western Hemisphere have been transplanted, mostly from Europe, but also from Asia and Africa. With them have come widespread changes in the prevalent technology of the hemisphere, as well as changes in political and other ideas. Nor has this transfer of "human capital" stopped in later centuries. The 1990 U.S. Census revealed that there were more than two and a half million highly educated people from Third World countries living in the United States, not counting students. Meanwhile, 40 percent of all emigrants from the Philippines were college educated. THE ROLE OF INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT The transfer of wealth internationally through market transactions allocates the resources of the world in much the same way that such transfers allocate resources domestically. In both cases, it is like water seeking its own level. If investments with a given degree of risk are paying off at a higher rate in Taiwan than in Sweden, then American, British or German capital will flow to Taiwan and not to Sweden, thereby raising the level of productivity in the world as a whole and raising standards of living internationally. Money and the resources it represents become, as it were, citizens of the world. Such economic benefits are often not welcome politically, however. While comparative advantage and free trade allow all nations to share in the world prosperity promoted by free movements of resources, not all industries Within all nations prosper. Those sectors of particular economies that are unable to match the competition in efficiency not only stand to lose money and jobs, they may even be threatened with bankruptcy and extinction. Seldom will they go quietly. Representatives of industries and regions that stand to lose business and jobs because of international competition are almost certain to seek restrictions on imported goods or resources which threaten their particular well-being, however beneficial such international transactions may be to the population as a whole. International movements of goods and investments also restrict the range of options available to particular governments. As noted in Chapter 16, governments have for centuries transferred wealth from the people to themselves by the simple process of issuing inflationary amounts of money and spending the newly created money for whatever the government wanted to finance. With free