stand idly by and let cows become extinct. Likewise, it is things not owned by anybody (air and water, for example) which are polluted. In centuries past, sheep were allowed to graze on unowned 1and-"the commons," as it was called-with the net result that land on the commons was so heavily grazed that it had little left but patchy ground and the shepherds had hungry and scrawny sheep. But privately owned land adjacent to the commons was usually in far better condition. Similar neglect of unowned land occurred in the Soviet Union. According to Soviet economists, "forest areas that are cut down are not re seeded," though it would be financial suicide for a lumbering company to let that happen on their own property in a capitalist economy. All these things, in different ways, illustrate the value of private property to the society as a whole, including people who own no private property, but who benefit from the greater economic efficiency it creates, which translates into a higher standard of living for the country as a whole. Despite a tendency to think of property rights as special privileges for the rich, many property rights are actually more valuable to people who are not rich-and such property rights have often been infringed or violated for the benefit of the rich. Although the average rich person, by definition, has more money than the average person who is not rich, in the aggregate the non-rich population often has far more money. This means, among other things, that many properties owned by the rich would be bid away from them by the greater purchasing power of the non-rich, if unrestricted property rights prevailed in a free market. Thus land occupied by mansions located on huge estates would pass through the market to entrepreneurs who would build smaller and more numerous homes or apartment buildings-all for the use of people with more modest incomes, but with more money in the aggregate. Someone once said, "It doesn't matter whether you are rich or poor, so long as you have money."This was meant as a joke but it has very serious implications. In a free market, the money of ordinary people is just as good as the money of the rich-and in the aggregate, there is more of it. The individually less affluent need not directly bid against the more affluent. Entrepreneurs or their companies, using their own money or money borrowed from banks and other financial institutions, can acquire mansions and estates, and replace them with middle-class homes and apartment buildings for people of modest incomes. This would of course change the communities in ways the rich might not like, however much others might like to live in the resulting newly developed communities. Wealthy people have often forestalled such transfers of property by getting laws passed to restrict property rights in a variety of ways. For example, various affluent northern California communities have required land to be sold only in lots of one acre or more