firms or rail or air freight carriers to transport their products. As the Far Eastern Economic Review put it: "Through decades of state-planned development, nearly all big Chinese firms transported their own goods, however inefficiently." Although theoretically firms specializing in transportation might operate more efficiently, the absence of financial incentives to satisfy their customers made specialized transport firms too unreliable, both as to times of delivery and as to the care-or lack of care-when handling goods in transit. A company manufacturing television sets in China might not be as efficient in transporting those sets as a specialized transport company would be, but at least they were less likely to damage their own TV sets by handling them roughly in transit. One of the other side effects of unreliable deliveries has been that Chinese firms have had to keep more goods in inventory, foregoing the advantages of "Just in time" delivery practices in Japan, which reduces the Japanese firms' Costs of maintaining inventories. Dell Computers in the United States likewise operates with very small inventories, relative to their sales, but this is possible only because there are shipping firms like Federal Express or UPS that Dell can rely on to get components to them and computers to their customers quickly and safely. The net result is that China spends about twice as high a share of its national income on transportation as the United States does, even though the U.S. has a larger territory, including two states separated by more than a thousand miles from the other states. Contrasts in the size-and therefore costs-of inventories can be extreme from one country to another. Japan carries the smallest inventories, while the Soviet Union carried the largest, with the United States in between. As two Soviet economists pointed out: Spare parts are used right "off the truck": in Japan producers commonly deliver supplies to their ordering companies three or four times a day. At Toyota the volume of warehoused inventories is calculated for only an hour of work, while at Ford the inventories are for up to three weeks. In the Soviet Union, "we have in inventories almost as much as we create in a year." In other words, most of the people who work in Soviet industry "could take a year's paid vacation" and the economy could live on its inventories. This is not an advantage but a handicap because inventories cost money-and don't earn any. From the standpoint of the economy as a whole, the production of inventory uses up resources without adding anything to either the standard of living of the public or the current output of industry. As the Soviet economists put it, "our economy is always burdened by the heavy weight of inventories, much heavier than those that weigh on a capitalist economy during the most destructive recessions." Yet the decisions to maintain huge inventories were not irrational decisions, given the circumstances of the Soviet economy and the incentives and constraints inherent in those circumstances. Soviet enterprises had