produce at higher costs per kilowatt hour. Sometimes technological progress gives the main system lower costs, while obsolete equipment is kept as standby equipment, rather than being junked, and the costs of producing additional electricity with this obsolete equipment is of course higher. Where additional electricity has to be purchased from outside sources when the local generating capacity is at its limit, the additional cost of transmitting that electricity from greater distances raises the cost of the additional electricity to much higher levels than the cost of electricity generated closer to the consumers. More variations in "the" cost of producing electricity come from fluctuations in the costs of the various fuels-oil, gas, coal, nuclear--used to run the generators. Since all these fuels are used for other things besides generating electricity, the demands for these fuels from other industries, or for use in homes or automobiles, makes their prices unpredictable. Hydroelectric dams likewise vary in how much electricity they can produce when rainfall varies, increasing or reducing the amount of water that passes through the generators. When the fixed costs of the dam are spread over differing amounts of electricity, the cost per kilowatt varies accordingly. How is a regulatory commission to set the rates to be charged consumers of electricity, given that the cost of generating it can vary widely and unpredictably? If state regulatory commissions set electricity rates based on "average" costs of generating electricity, then when there is a higher demand or a shorter supply within the state, out-of-state suppliers may be unwilling to sell electricity at prices lower than their own costs of generating the additional electricity from standby units. This was part of the reason for the much-publicized blackouts in California in 2001. "Average" costs are irrelevant when the costs of generation are far above average at a particular time or far below average at other times. Because the public is unlikely to be familiar with all the economic complications involved, they are likely to be outraged at having to pay electricity rates far higher than they are used to. In turn, this means that politicians are tempted to step in and impose price controls based on the old rates. And, as already noted in other contexts, price controls create shortages-in this case, blackouts. A larger quantity demanded and a smaller quantity supplied has been a very familiar response to price controls, going back in history long before electricity came into use. However, politicians' success does not depend on their learning the lessons of history or of economics. It depends far more on their going along with what is widely believed by the public and the media, which may include conspiracy theories or belief that higher prices are due to "gouging" or "greed." Halfway around the world at the same time, attempts to raise electricity rates in India were being met by street demonstrations, as they were in California. In the state of Karnataka, controlled politically by the Congress Party at the time, efforts to change