can turn it into something to alarm the public. Deficits and debts are accounting concepts. What matters economically is what is done with the resources involved. Even the biggest and richest corporations have debts, since they sell bonds as well as stocks. As far as accounting is concerned, debts are debts. But that is why economics differs from accounting-and why the facts often differ greatly from what is said in politics and the media. OTHER TRANSFERS Even in an era of international investments in the trillions of dollars, other kinds of transfers of wealth among nations remain significant. These include remittances, foreign aid, and transfers of human capital in the form of the skills and entrepreneur ship of emigrants. Remittances Emigrants working in foreign countries often send money back to their families to support them. During the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, Italian emigrant men were particularly noted for enduring terrible living conditions in various countries around the world, and even skimping on food, in order to send money back to their families in Italy. Most of the people fleeing the famine in Ireland during the 1840s traveled across the Atlantic with their fares paid by remittances from members of their families already living in the United States. The same would be true of Jewish emigrants from Eastern Europe to the United States in later years. By the late twentieth century, there were so many emigrants working in so many countries abroad, and sending money home, that their remittances exceeded all the foreign aid from all the government agencies in the world combined. Most of Pakistan's international trade deficit was covered by remittances from Pakistanis working abroad and Jordan received more money from Jordanians living overseas than it did from all its exports. At one time, overseas Chinese living in Malaysia, Indonesia and other Southeast Asian nations were noted for sending money back to their families in China. Politicians and journalists in these countries often whipped up hostility against the overseas Chinese by claiming that such remittances were impoverishing their countries for the benefit of China. In reality, the Chinese created many of the enterprises-and sometimes whole industries-in these Southeast nations. What they were sending back to China was a fraction of the wealth they had created and added to the wealth in the countries where they were now living. Similar charges were made against the Lebanese in West Africa, the Indians and Pakistanis in East Africa, and other groups around the world. The underlying fallacy in each case was due to ignoring the wealth created by these groups, so that the countries to which they immigrated had more wealth-not less-as a result of these groups being there. Sometimes the hostility generated against such groups has led to their leaving these countries or being expelled, often followed by economic declines after their departure. Emigrants and Immigrants From the standpoint of the economy as a whole, money is not wealth, as we have seen in other economic contexts. People are one