computers measuring 3,000 cubic feet became obsolete when Intel created a chip smaller than a fingernail that could do the same things. Yet Intel itself was then constantly forced to improve that chip at an exponential rate, as rivals like Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), Cyrix, and others began catching up with them technologically. More than once, Intel poured such huge sums of money into the development of improved chips as to risk the financial survival of the company itself But the alternative was to allow itself to be overtaken by rivals, which would have been an even bigger risk to Intel's survival. Later, Advanced Micro Devices made equally strenuous attempts to overtake Intel with a more advanced chip-and in the process had losses of more than a billion dollars in 2002, while AMD stock lost four-fifths of its value. Even among corporate giants, competition can become desperate in a free market. Nor was AMD unique. In 2002, 120 of the Fortune 500 companies reported losses totaling in the aggregate more than $295 billion. Such losses play a vital role in the economy, forcing corporate giants to change what they are doing, under penalty of extinction, since no one can sustain losses of this magnitude indefinitely. Inertia may be a common tendency among human beings around the world, but businesses operating in a free market are forced by red ink on the bottom line to realize that they cannot keep drifting along like the Hindustan Motor Corporation, protected from competition by the Indian government. Even in India, the freeing of markets toward the end of the twentieth century created competition in cars, forcing Hindustan Motors to invest in improvements, producing new Ambassadors that were "much more reliable than their predecessors," according to The Independent. While capitalism has a visible cost-profit-that does not exist under socialism, socialism has an invisible cost-inefficiency-that gets weeded out by losses and bankruptcy under capitalism. The fact that most goods are more widely affordable in a capitalist economy implies that profit is less costly than inefficiency. Put differently, profit is a price paid for efficiency. Clearly the greater efficiency must outweigh the profit or else socialism would in fact have had the more affordable prices and greater prosperity that Its theorists expected, but which failed to materialize in the real world. While capitalists have been conceived of as people who make profits, what a business owner really gets is legal ownership of whatever residual is left over after the costs have been paid out of the money received from customers. That residual can turn out to be positive, negative or zero. Workers must be paid and creditors must be paid-or else they can take legal action to seize the company's assets. The only person whose payment is contingent on how well the business is doing is the owner of that business. This is what puts unrelenting pressure on the owner to monitor everything that is happening in the business and everything that is happening in the market