ensure good grades on exams. . . . Over all, Russian students and their parents annually spend at least $2 billion-and possibly up to $5 billion-in such "unofficial" educational outlays, the deputy prime minister, Valentina Matviyenko, said last year in an interview. In a country's economy, bribes are not simply a cost to companies doing business in that particular country. They are a deterrent to other companies that are deciding where to invest and where to avoid-and the loss of those investments can be a much bigger cost to the economy than the bribes themselves. As The Economist magazine put it: "For sound economic reasons, investors and international aid agencies are increasingly taking the level of bribery and corruption into account in their investment and lending." It is not just corruption but also sheer bureaucracy which can stifle economic activity. Even one of India's most spectacularly successful industrialists, Aditya Birla, found himself forced to look to other countries in which to expand his investments, because of India's slow-moving bureaucrats: With all his successes, there were heartbreaks galore. One of them was the Mangalore refinery, which Delhi's bureaucrats took eleven years to clear-a record even by the standards of the Indian bureaucracy. While both of us were waiting for a court to open up at the Bombay Gymkhana one day, I asked Aditya Birla what had led him to invest abroad. He had no choice, he said, in his deep, unaffected voice. There were too many obstacles in India. To begin with, he needed a license, which the government would not give because the Birlas were classified as "a large house" under the MRTP [Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices] Act. Even if he did get one miraculously, the government would decide where he should invest, what technology he must use, what was to be the size of the plant, how it was to be financed-even the size and structure of his public issue. Then he would have to battle the bureaucracy to get licenses for the import of capital goods and raw materials. After that, he faced dozens of clearances at the state level-for power, land, sales tax, excise, labor, among others. "All this takes years, and frankly, I get exhausted just thinking about it." This head of 37 companies with combined sales in the billions of dollars-someone capable of creating many much-needed jobs in India-ended up producing fiber in Thailand, which he converted to yarn in his factory in Indonesia, exporting the yarn to Belgium, where it was woven into carpets which were then exported to Canada. All the jobs, incomes, business opportunities, and taxes from which India could have benefited were lost because of the country's own bureaucracies. The Framework of Laws For fostering economic activities and the prosperity resulting from them, laws must be reliable, above all. If the application of the law varies with the whims of kings or dictators, with changes in democratically elected governments, or with the caprices or corruption of appointed officials, then the