that other countries cannot grow coffee. It is just that the amount and quality of coffee that most countries could produce would not be worth the resources it would cost, when more and better coffee can be bought from Brazil at a lower cost. These are examples of what economists call "absolute advantage"-one country, for any of a number of reasons, can produce some things cheaper or better than another. Those reasons may be due to climate, geography, or the mixture of skills in their respective populations. Whatever the reason may be in each particular case, absolute advantage means that one country can simply produce a given product more cheaply or better than another. Foreigners who buy that country's products benefit from the lower costs, while the country itself obviously benefits from the larger market for its products and sometimes from the fact that part of the inputs needed to create the product are free, such as warmth in the tropics or rich nutrients in the soil in various places around the world. There is another more subtle, but at least equally important, reason for international trade. This is what economists call "comparative advantage." Comparative Advantage To illustrate what is meant by comparative advantage, suppose that one country is so efficient that it is capable of producing anything more cheaply than a neighboring country. Is there any benefit that the more efficient country can gain from trading with its neighbor? Yes. Why? Because being able to produce anything more cheaply is not the same as being able to produce everything more cheaply. When there are scarce resources which have alternative uses, producing more of one product means producing less of some other product. The question is not simply how much it costs, in either money or resources, to produce chairs or television sets in one country, but how many chairs it costs to produce a television set, when resources are shifted from producing one product to producing the other. If that trade-off is different between two countries, then the County that can get more television sets by foregoing the production of chairs can benefit from trading with the country that gets more chairs by not producing television sets. A numerical example can illustrate this point. Even if the United States could produce anything more efficiently than Canada, it could still benefit by not producing some things and importing them from Canada instead. For example, assume that an average American worker produces 500 chairs a month, while an average Canadian worker produces 450, and that an American worker can produce 200 television sets a month while a Canadian worker produces 100. The tables below illustrate what the output would be under these conditions if both countries produced both products versus each country producing only one of these products. In both tables we assume the same respective outputs per worker and the same total number of workers-500-devoted to producing these products in each country: PRODUCTS AMERICAN AMERICAN CANADIAN CANADIAN WORKERS OUTPUT WORKERS