the victims of natural disasters, birth defects, or other misfortunes beyond their control. From a political standpoint, however, politicians win votes by doing special favors for special interests or putting special taxes on whoever or whatever might be unpopular at the moment. The Meaning of Costs" In light of the role of trade-offs and substitutions, it is easier to understand the real meaning of costs as the foregone opportunities to use the same resources elsewhere. Because an economy deals with scarce resources which have alternative uses, every benefit has a cost in the alternative uses that could have been made of the same resources that created a particular benefit. We do not simply "put" a price on things. Things have inherent costs and our political choice is only between trying to suppress the conveying of those costs to the users in prices or allowing these inherent costs to be expressed in the marketplace. Free-market prices are not mere arbitrary obstacles to getting what people want. Prices are symptoms of an underlying reality that is not nearly as susceptible to political manipulation as the prices are. Prices are like thermometer readings-and a patient with a fever is not going to be helped by plunging the thermometer into ice water to lower the reading. On the contrary, if we were to take the new readings seriously and imagine that the patient's fever was over, the dangers would be even greater, now that the underlying reality was being ignored. Despite how obvious all this might seem, there are never-ending streams of political schemes designed to escape the realities being conveyed by prices-whether through direct price controls or by making this or that "affordable" with subsidies or by having the government itself supply various goods and services free, as a "right." There are probably more ill-conceived economic policies based on treating prices as just nuisances to get around than on any other single fallacy. What all these schemes have in common is that they exempt some things from the process of weighing costs and benefits against one another. Sometimes the rationale for removing particular things from the process if weighing costs against benefits is expressed in some such question as: Bow can you put a price on art?"-or education, health, music, etc. The fundamental fallacy underlying this question is the belief that prices are simply "put" on things. So long as art, education, health, music, and thousands of other things all require time, effort, and material resources, the costs of these inputs are the prices that are inherent. These costs do not go away because a law prevents them from being conveyed through prices in the marketplace. Ultimately, to society as a whole, costs are the other things that could have been produced with the same resources. Money flows and price movements are symptoms of that fact-and suppressing these symptoms will not change the underlying fact. PART II: INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE Chapter 5 The Rise and Fall of Businesses Failure is part of the