in the process. Political authorities have often had "non-economic values" that were devastating to the general population. Does a free market, as a mechanism for mutual accommodation, facilitate greed as it facilitates the fulfillment of people's other desires? It certainly does not prevent greed, though it does exact a quid pro quo-providing others with something that they want, in order to get them to part with their money. A more relevant question, however, is whether other economic systems, including those founded on altruistic and egalitarian principles, actually end up with less greed than an economic system that depends on prices to allocate scarce resources. Although socialist systems, including the Communist variety, began as attempts to apply egalitarian principles, examples of sacrificing the well-being millions of people for the well-being of those with political power abounded in the Soviet Union and the Communist bloc in general. At the purely economic level, the ruling nomenklatura of the U S.S.R. had separate stores in which only they were eligible to make purchases, as well as other government-supported facilities to which they alone had access. These were of course the best stores, with the most abundant supplies of the commodities most in demand. In addition, the housing, medical care and other facilities open to Communist Party bosses was likewise the best. The rhetoric of equality-egalitarian terms like "comrade" and "people's democracy"-was no match for the reality of greed, especially when that greed could use the power of a totalitarian state, instead of having to supply others' desires in order to earn their money. Even in a democratic country like India, the era of massive government controls over the economy-lasting for nearly half a century, from independence in 1947 to the beginning of the last decade of the twentieth century was an era of massive corruption of both high officials and innumerable petty bureaucrats, whose permissions were necessary to do virtually all of the ordinary things that people do at will in a free market economy. Pervasive bribery was only part of that cost. The inefficiencies created by intrusive bureaucratic controls have been estimated to have cost the economy vast amounts of lost production that would have made the average Indians' income hundreds of dollars a year higher. In one of the poorest countries in the world, where malnutrition was a serious problem for many, such a loss meant far more than whether the average American's annual income was a few hundred dollars more or less. Greed can flourish under very different economic systems. The only real question is: What are its actual consequences under these systems? Where the desire for a fortune can be satisfied by finding ways to lower prices and thereby expand the market for one's output, that is very different from a system where that same desire is more readily fulfilled by imposing political power. In other words, greed is not the product of one particular economic system, but something that all economic, political, and social systems have to cope with