that it was now impossible to continue to sell as many goods and hire as many people at the old price levels, including the old wage levels. If prices and wage rates had also declined immediately by one-third, then of course the reduced money supply could still , have bought as much as before, and the same real output and employment could have continued. There would have been the same amount of real I things produced, just with smaller numbers on their price tags, so that paychecks with smaller numbers on them could have bought just as much as before. In reality, however, a complex national economy can never adjust that fast or that perfectly, so there was a massive decline in total sales, with corresponding declines in production and employment. Thus began the Great Depression of the 1930s, during which as many as one-fourth of all workers were unemployed and American corporations as a whole operated at a loss for two years in a row. U. S. Steel stock went from 261314 to 211/4 and General Electric fell from 396 1/4 to 70 1/4 in 1932.,General Motors stock, which peaked at 72 3/4 in 1929, hit bottom at 7 5/8. On the entire decade of the 1930s, unemployment averaged more than 18 percent. It was the greatest economic catastrophe in the history of the United States. The fears, policies and institutions it generated were still evident more than half a century later. THE FALLACY OF COMPOSITION While some of the same principles which apply when discussing markets for particular goods, industries, or occupations may also apply when discussing the national economy, it cannot be assumed in advance that this is always the case. When thinking about the national economy, a special challenge will be to avoid what philosophers call "the fallacy of composition"-the mistaken assumption that what applies to a part applies automatically to the whole. For example, the 1990s were dominated by news stories about massive reductions in employment in particular American firms and industries, with tens of thousands of workers being laid off by some large companies and hundreds of thousands in some industries. Yet the rate of unemployment in the U.S. economy as a whole was the lowest in years during the 1990s, while the number of jobs nationwide rose to record high levels. What was true of the various sectors of the economy that made news in the media was not true of the economy as a whole. The fallacy of composition threatens confusion in many aspects of the study of the national economy, because what is true of an individual or even an industry is not necessarily true for the economy. For example, any given individual who doubles the amount of money he or she has will be richer, but a nation cannot be made richer by printing twice as much money. That is because the price level will rise in the economy as a whole if there is twice as much money in