controls and had publicly rejected the idea just eleven days before doing an about-face and accepting it. Inflation had created mounting pressures from the public and the media to "do something." With a presidential election due the following year, the administration could not afford to be seen as doing nothing while inflation raged out of control. However, even aside from such political concerns, the participants in this meeting were "exhilarated by all the great decisions they had made" that day, according to a participant. Looking back, he later recalled "that more time was spent discussing the timing of the president's speech than how the economic program would work." There was particular concern that, if his speech were broadcast in prime time, it would cause cancellation of the very popular television program Bonanza, leading to public resentments. Here is what happened: Nixon's speech-despite the preemption of Bonanza-was a great hit. The public felt that the government was coming to its defense against the price gougers . . . During the next evening's newscasts, 90 percent of the coverage Was devoted to Nixon's new policy. The coverage was favorable. And the Dow Jones Industrial Average registered a 32.9 point gain-the largest one-day increase up to then. In short, the controls were a complete success politically. As for their economic consequences:Ranchers stopped shipping their cattle to the market, farmers drowned their chickens, and consumers emptied the shelves of supermarkets. In short, artificially low prices led to supplies being reduced while the demands of consumers increased. For example, more American cattle began to be exported, mostly to Canada, instead of being sold in the price-controlled U.S. market. Thus price controls produced essentially the same results under the Nixon administration as they had produced in the Roman Empire under Diocletian, in the Soviet Union under the Communists, in Ghana under Nkhrumah, and in numerous other times and places where such policies had been tried before. Nor was this particular policy unique politically in how it was conceived and carried out. Veteran economic adviser Herbert Stein observed, 25 years after the Nixon administration meeting at which he had been present, "failure to look ahead is extremely common in government policy making." Another way of saying the same thing is that political time horizons tend to be much shorter than economic time horizons. Before the full economic consequences of the wage and price control policies became widely apparent, Nixon had been re-elected with a landslide victory at the polls. There is no "present value" factor to force political decision-makers to take into account the long-run consequences of their current decisions. One of the important fields neglected as a result of the short political time horizon is education. As a writer in India put it, "No one bothers about education because results take a long time to come." This is not peculiar to India. With fundamental educational reform being both difficult and requiring years to show end results, it is politically much more expedient for elected officials to