three-quarters of their present salaries. They are charging what the traffic will bear for their work. And if someone else offers to pay them twice what they are currently earning, it is very unlikely that they will continue working for their current employer, unless that employer matches the offer. Strictly speaking, a business is unlikely to charge literally all that the traffic will bear. If General Motors is selling a certain automobile for $25,000, it could probably still sell some to real devotees of that particular car if they doubled the price to $50,000. But, although the traffic would bear a price of $50,000, sales would probably be so reduced that GM would not make as much money as they would by charging $25,000. However, we can take the expression "charging what the traffic will bear" as meaning simply maximizing total profits. What we really need to understand are the implications of saying that higher prices are due to profit maximizing. We also need to understand the consequences of trying to stop it. During the California electricity crisis of 2000-2001, for example, as the wholesale price of electricity suddenly shot up far above what they had been, Some electricity generating companies were accused of charging whatever the traffic would bear. Why would the traffic bear higher electricity prices in 2000 and 2001 than before? Not surprisingly, it had to do with supply and demand. , As the price of the fuels used to generate electricity rose, so did the cost of generating a given amount of electricity. Whereas the price of natural gas delivered to electric utilities in California was only $2.70 per million British thermal units (BTUs) in 1998-1999, by the summer of 2000 the price had nearly doubled to $5.00 per million BTUs. This was part of a nationwide increase in natural gas prices, as a result of a cold winter after several mild winters, thereby causing more natural gas to be used for heating than in the previous years. In the meantime, the international oil cartel raised the price of petroleum, which is also used to generate electricity. Moreover, this all happened while a west coast drought reduced the amount of water passing over hydroelectric dams, thereby generating less electricity than usual. Meanwhile, on the demand side, Pacific coast winters were colder than usual and summers were hotter than usual in California and Nevada. This meant that more electricity was being used for heating in the winter and for cooling in the summer. In short, there was a reduction in the quantity of electricity available at a given cost and an increase in the quantity of electricity demanded at existing prices. A price rise under these conditions is hardly surprising. Unfortunately, most members of the general public were unaware of these factors behind the suddenly rising prices, and so were resentful and became receptive to those who blamed the price increases on power companies' charging what the traffic would bear. If this were just a philosophical issue,