results: In the earlier famine one could hardly engage in the grain trade without becoming amenable to the law. In 1866 respectable men in vast numbers went into the trade; for the Government, by publishing weekly returns of the rates in every district, rendered the traffic both easy and safe. Everyone knew where to buy grain cheapest and where to sell it dearest and food was accordingly brought from the districts which could best spare it and carried to those which most urgently needed it. As elementary as all this may seem, in terms of economic principles, it was made possible politically only because the British colonial government was not accountable to local public opinion. In an era of democratic politics, the same actions would require either a public familiar with basic economics or political leaders willing to risk their careers to do what needed to be done. It is hard to know which is less likely. Chapter 4 An Overview . .. we need education in the obvious more than investigation of the obscure. -JUSTICE OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES Understanding any subject requires that it first be defined, so that you are clear in your own mind as to what you are talking about-and what you are not talking about. It is not merely the subject matter which defines economics, but also its methods and its purposes. Just as a poetic discussion of the weather is not meteorology, so an issuance of moral pronouncements or political creeds about the economy is not economics. Economics is a study of cause-and-effect relationships in an economy. Its purpose is to discern the consequences of various ways of allocating scarce resources which have alternative uses. It has nothing to say about social philosophy or moral values, any more than it has anything to say about music, literature, or medical science. These other things are not necessarily any less important, they are simply not what economics is about. No one expects mathematics to explain love and no one should expect economics to be something other than what it is or to do something other than what it can. But both mathematics and economics can be very important where they apply. Careful and complex mathematical calculations can be the difference between having an astronaut who is returning to earth from orbit end up crashing in the Himalayas or landing safely in Florida. We have also seen similar social disasters from misunderstanding the basic principles of economics. Even where no money is involved, economic principles may still apply. During the Second World War, Japanese fighter pilots were initially very formidable adversaries for American fighter pilots, who lacked aerial combat experience, such as the Japanese had already gotten while fighting in China and elsewhere. But, as the war went on, the two countries followed different policies with regard to their combat pilots. American pilots were systematically taken out of combat after flying a certain number of missions, and were then used as instructors who could spread some of