comparative advantage in the development of computer software design, but the machines themselves could now easily be assembled in poorer countries overseas-and were. Even computers sold within the United States under American brand names were often manufactured in Asia. The computer software industry in the United States could not have expanded so much and so successfully if most American computer engineers and technicians were tied down with the production of machines that could have been just as easily be produced in some other country. Since the same American labor cannot be in two places at one time, it can move to where its comparative advantage is greatest only if the country "loses jobs" where it has no comparative advantage. That is why the United States could have unprecedented levels of prosperity and rapidly growing employment at the very times when media headlines were regularly announcing lay-offs by the tens of thousands in some industries and by the hundreds of thousands in others. Desperate attempts to salvage their wrong predictions have led some to assert that the new jobs were only low-wage jobs "flipping hamburgers" and the like. But assertions are not facts. If Americans in general were losing higher-paid jobs and being forced to take lower-paid jobs, how then could the American standard of living have continued to rise, as data in chapter 9 showed? In reality, when the shifting of low-skill jobs to other countries enables an American company to become more profitable, it can then afford to hire Americans for higher-skill jobs. It is not a zero-sum game when there is more total wealth available after the shift. While it is undoubtedly true that some particular individuals, or even many employees of some particular firms or industries, may have lost ground during the transition, we cannot commit "the fallacy of composition" and assume that what is true for some is true in general. The rise in the general level of real income in the United States means that the gains have clearly outstripped the losses. But, where those who lose jobs are organized, their complaints carry more political weight. When the number of jobs in the American steel industry was cut from 340,000 to 125,000 during the decade of the 1980s, that had a devastating impact and was big economic and political news. It also led to a variety of laws and regulations designed to reduce the amount of steel imported into the country to compete with domestically produced steel. Of course, this reduction in supply led to higher steel prices within the United States and therefore higher costs for all other American industries that were producing objects made of steel, ranging from automobiles to oil rigs. With American manufacturers paying more than a hundred dollars more per ton of steel, and having to recover such increased costs from increased prices charged the consumers, all these products were at a disadvantage in competing with similar foreign-made products, both within the United States and in international markets. It has