by Richard Herrnstein and Charles Murray. The comparison of the incomes of Maoris with those of other New Zealanders of comparable age, skill, and literacy is quoted from page 43 and 44 of Poverty and Benefit Dependency by David Green. The number of Americans working in the Soviet Union is from page 11 of The Turning Point by Nikolai Shmelev and Vladimir Popov. Violations of apartheid laws by employers in South Africa are discussed on pages 152 and 153 of Capitalism and Apartheid by Merle Lipton. Violations of these laws by home builders in Johannesburg are discussed on page 164 of Apartheid: A History by Brian Lapping. Violations of the residential aspects of the apartheid laws are discussed on pages 112 and 113 of South Africa's War Against Capitalism by Walter E. Williams-a black American economist who himself violated these laws by living in an area set aside for whites. The round-the-clock use of trucks in mid-twentieth century West Africa is discussed on pages 14 and 15 of West African Trade by P.T. Bauer. Data on the average life of capital equipment in the Soviet Union and in the United States are from pages 145-146 of The Turning Point by Nikolai Shmelev and Vladimir Popov. CHAPTER 10: CONTROLLED LABOR MARKETS The fact that the average American has nine jobs between the ages of 18 and 35 is from page 79 of Savings Capitalism from the Capitalists by Rahhuram G. Rajan and Luigi Zingales. The effects of job security for NATO's military personnel were reported in a front-page article in the Wall Street Journal of February 3, 2003, under the title "How the Armies of Europe Let Their Guard Down," by Philip Shiskin. The effect of minimum wages in reducing the employment of workers in general in various countries, and the employment of younger and less skilled workers in particular, is discussed on pages 33, 34, and 335 of What Future for New Zealand's Minimum Wage Law, based on a study done by ACIL Economics and Policy, Pty. Ltd., and published by the New Zealand Business Roundtable. Similar conclusions for the United States are found in Youth and Minority Unemployment, written by Walter E. Williams and published in 1977 by the Hoover Institution Press. The unemployment rate in Switzerland in February 2003 was reported on page 100 of March 15, 2003 issue of The Economist. The quote from the Wall Street Journal about the unemployment rate in Hong Kong in 1991 was from page C 16 of the January 16,1991 issue. New government-mandated benefits for workers in Hong Kong and the higher unemployment rates after China took control are mentioned on page 45 of Country Commerce: Hong Kong, a report released in December 2002 by The Economist Intelligence Unit, based in New York and affiliated with the London magazine, The Economist. The effect of informal minimum wages in West Africa are discussed on pages 18 and 19 of 1fest African Trade, written by Professor P. T. Bauer of the London School