put everything they owned on the line to open a McDonald's restaurant also succeeded on a grand scale, even when they had no experience in running a restaurant or managing a business. When McDonald's set up its own company-owned restaurants, they did not succeed nearly as well as restaurants owned by people whose own life's savings were at stake. But there was no way to know this in advance. Neither individuals nor companies are successful forever. Death alone guarantees turnover in management. An A & P executive during its declining years summarized its problems by saying: "The simple fact is that A & P had only one major management problem-the company was unable to replace Mr. John," the name long used inside the company for John Hartford, the last member of the founding family to run A & P. The decline of A & P began with his death. His successors could not simply continue his policies, . for the whole retail grocery industry and the society around it were changing rapidly. "You cannot run a retail business from memory," John Hartford himself once remarked. What was needed after his death were not the particular policies and practices that were geared to his day. What was needed was the same kind of foresight, dedication, and imagination that had raised A & P to its pinnacle in the first place-and such talents are not readily available, certainly not continuously and indefinitely in one company. Like so many other things, running a business looks easy from the outside. On the eve of the Bolshevik revolution, V. I. Lenin declared that "accounting and control" were the key factors in running an enterprise and that capitalism had already "reduced" the administration of businesses to "extraordinarily simple operations" that "any literate person can perform"-that is, "supervising and recording, knowledge of the four rules of arithmetic, and issuing appropriate receipts." Such "exceedingly simple operations of registration, filing and checking" could, according to Lenin, "easily be performed" by people receiving ordinary workmen's wages. After just a few years in power, however, Lenin confronted a very different-and very bitter-reality. He himself wrote of a "fuel crisis" which "threatens to disrupt all Soviet work," of economic "ruin, starvation, and devastation" in the country and even admitted that peasant uprisings had become "a common occurrence" under Communist rule. In short, the economic functions which had seemed so easy and simple before having to perform them now loomed menacingly difficult. Belatedly, Lenin saw a need for people "who are versed in the art of administration" and admitted that "there is nowhere we can turn to for such people except the old class"-that is, the capitalist businessmen. In his address to the 1920 Communist Party Congress, Lenin warned his comrades: "Opinions on corporate management are all too frequently imbued with a spirit of sheer ignorance, an anti-expert bias." The apparent simplicities of just three years earlier now required experts. Thus began Lenin's New Economic Policy, which allowed more market activity, and under