Explain. 6. "The nationalization of banks in India was not simply a matter of transferring ownership of an enterprise to the government. This transfer changed all the incentives and constraints from those of the marketplace to those of politics and bureaucracy." Explain what consequences followed and why. 7. Even if detailed statistics are available, why is it difficult to compare the national output at the beginning of the twentieth century with the national output at the beginning of the twenty-first century, and say by what percentage it has increased? Why is it hard even to say how much prices for particular goods have increased from one century to another? 8. Why would an Albanian bank, with 83 percent of the country's deposits, refuse to make any loans? And what were the consequences for the Albanian economy? 9. In a free country, people can express their desires either through the political system or through the marketplace. What difference does it make which one they choose? Explain why the end results are, or are not, likely to be any different. 10. Since "money talks" in the marketplace, why would rich people want to shift some decisions out of the marketplace and have them settled politically or by courts? (Hint: housing is a classic example.) PART VI: THE INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY 1. If laws restrict the importation of a particular foreign product, in order to protect the jobs of domestic workers who produce that product, how is it possible that this can end up reducing domestic employment? 2. Britain began importing farm products at a time when its own farmers were more efficient than the foreign farmers whose products it was importing. How could this be beneficial to Britain? How did this effect the international allocation of scarce resources which have alternative uses? 3. What are the three most important benefits of international trade? Explain each in terms of its effect on the efficient allocation of scarce resources which have alternative uses. 4. Why might the government of a Third World country prefer to receive a smaller amount of money as foreign aid, rather than a larger amount of money as private investment? 5. What is meant by a "favorable balance of trade"? Why was it considered favorable? Is it also favorable to producing prosperity in the economy? 6. When foreigners annually take more wealth out of the U.S. economy than the Gross Domestic Product of Egypt or Malaysia, how can that fail to make Americans poorer? 7. What economic difference does it make when the level of honesty in one country is very different from that in another country? 8. In the absence of restrictions on international trade, would low-wage countries tend to take jobs away from high-wage countries through lower production costs that would allow them to sell at lower prices? Explain. 9. The United States has often been a "debtor nation" owing more to people in other countries than people in other countries owe to Americans, while Switzerland has often been