with wealthier industrial nations of North America and Western Europe, lest these capitalists exploit them. Only after many years of painful economic failures in trying to produce internally the goods which could have been bought more cheaply in the world market did Latin America's governments eventually abandon dependency theory and the self-destructive economic policies based on it. Perhaps even more remarkable, this theory eventually lost ground even among Latin American intellectuals. Yet what a price was paid in the meantime by those Latin American peoples whose standards of living were needlessly kept lower than they could have been with the available resources and technology. Misconceptions are more than mere intellectual problems. They can have large and painful human consequences. As is so often the case, the economic realities are not very complicated, but there is nevertheless a great difficulty in extricating ourselves from tangled myths and misconceptions. This is especially so when it comes to labor, for people's work has been sufficiently central to their lives to help define who they are, as reflected in the great number of family names which are based on occupations-Smith, Shepherd, Weaver, Carpenter, Mason, Wright, Miller, Brewer, Cook, Butler, and Steward, for example. But, however emotionally powerful the role of labor may be, it is still part of the general economic pattern of the allocation of scarce resources which have alternative uses. ALLOCATION AND INEQUALITIES In an economy that never changed, it would be possible to establish some permanent allocation of labor to its various uses and to establish some payment system-whether based on equal pay or some other principle-that would also be permanent. But no such permanent arrangements are possible in an economy that is growing in size and developing technologically. Unpredictable advances in organization and technology occur in different parts of the economy at different times, requiring shifts in labor and other resources from one industry or sector to another, if the new potentialities are to lead to greater output and the higher standards of living which depend on greater output. The allocation of human resources-with the inequalities this often entails-is inextricably bound up with the economic development on which the prosperity of all depends. Unless workers are to be ordered to move from one industry, region, or occupation to another, as under totalitarianism, economic incentives and constraints must accomplish these transfers in a market economy. Higher pay may attract workers to the newer and more productive sectors or unemployment may force them out of sectors whose products or technologies are becoming obsolete. Simple and obvious as this may seem, it is often misunderstood by those who are shocked to see some sectors of the economy prospering at the same time when others are being "left behind" or are even suffering losses of business and jobs. Too often there is no sense that these are all part of the same process, rather than separate happen-stances that are good for some and bad for others. There were, for example, many laments in nineteenth