of scale in agriculture affect the way tractor drivers plowed fields in the Soviet Union? What if agricultural enterprises had been privately owned and the tractor drivers were plowing their own fields? Would the work have been done differently and would the farm be likely to be as large? Explain why. 7. Any given individual's knowledge is extremely limited, under any economic or political system. How does the effect of this limitation differ in an economy coordinated by prices than in an economy coordinated by central planners? 8. Advertising, even when it is successful, is often considered to be a benefit only to those who advertise, but of no benefit to consumers, who have to pay the cost of the advertisements in the higher price of the products they buy. Critique this view. 9. What can and should be done for companies lagging behind while the rest of the economy is moving ahead? 10. Why are retired people able to get much lower priced travel rates-on cruise ships, for example-than most other people? 11. Why is the perennial desire to "eliminate the middleman" perennially frustrated? 12. After the A & P grocery chain cut its profit margins on the goods it sold, back in the early twentieth century, its rate of profit on its investment rose well above the national average. Why? PART III: WORK AND PAY 1. What have been some of the economic and social consequences of the substitution of machine power for human strength, as a result of industrialization, and the growing importance of knowledge, skills, and experience in a high-tech economy? 2. Would you expect the average hammer to drive more nails per year in a richer country or a poorer country? Would you expect the average worker to produce more output per hour in a richer country or a poorer country? Explain the reasons in each case. 3. Some studies have attempted to determine how employment has changed in the wake of a minimum wage increase by surveying individual firms to find out how their employment has changed, and then adding up the results. What is the problem with this procedure? 4. How can per capita income be increasing by 50 percent over a period of years, while average family income and average household income remain almost stationary over those same years? 5. When the difference in income between the top and bottom brackets increases, does that necessarily mean that a given set of individuals are falling further behind another given set..of individuals? 6. Would a country in transition between a communist economy and a capitalist economy, such as China, tend to have more equality of income or less, compared to an economy that was continuing to be communist or continuing to be capitalist? 7. Although maximum wage laws existed long before minimum wage laws, only the latter are common today. However, in those special cases where there have been maximum wage laws-as under wage and price controls during World War II, for example, what