enough. The Garden of Eden was a system for the production and distribution of goods and services, but it was not an economy, because everything was available in unlimited abundance. Without scarcity, there is no need to economize-and therefore no economics. A distinguished British economist named Lionel Robbins gave the classic definition of economics: Economics is the study of the use of scarce resources which have alternative uses. Some optimists have said that we now live in "an era of abundance" and some pessimists have said that we are entering "an era of scarcity." Both are wrong. The wide range of goods and services available to us vastly exceeds what past generations and past centuries had to offer. But every era has always been an era of scarcity. What does "scarce" mean? It means that what everybody wants adds up to more than there is. This may seem like a simple thing, but its implications are often grossly misunderstood, even by highly educated people. For example, a feature article in the New York Times laid out the economic woes and worries of middle-class Americans-one of the most affluent groups of human beings ever to inhabit this planet. Although the story included a picture' of a middle-class American family in their own swimming pool, the main headline read: "The American Middle, Just Getting By." Other headings in the article included: Wishes Deferred and Plans Unmet Goals That Remain Just Out of Sight Dogged Saving and Some Luxuries In short, middle-class Americans' desires exceed what they can comfortably afford, even though what they already have would be considered unbelievable prosperity by people in many other countries around the world-or even by earlier generations of Americans. Yet both they and the reporter regard them as "just getting by" and a Harvard sociologist spoke of "how budget constrained these people really are." However, it is not something as man-made as a budget that constrains them: Reality constrains them. There has never been enough to satisfy everyone completely. That is the real constraint. That is what scarcity means. Although per capita real income in the United States increased 50 percent in just one generation, these middle-class families "have had to work hard for their modest gains," according to a Fordham professor quoted in the same article. (Were they expecting manna from heaven?) As for how hard they worked and the modesty of their gains, it is doubtful whether most other people in the world would regard Americans' work in air conditioned offices with coffee breaks as "hard" or their standard of living as "just getting by." However, as someone once said: "Just as soon as people make enough money to live comfortably, they want to live extravagantly." Even millionaires can have a hard time making ends meet if they try to live like billionaires. The New York Times reporter wrote of one of these middle-class families: After getting in over their heads in credit card spending years ago, their finances are now in order. "But