money on such things as rare stamps or antique furniture. But often these are items of little or no use or interest to most people, even though their prices may be bid up to astronomical levels by a few rich people bidding against one another. The loss to the society .IS typically trivial. For example, a rare camera used by the Japanese navy 111 World War II was put on sale for $40,000, but better photographs can be taken with cameras on sale today for less than one percent of that. In such cases, the rich are paying for the distinction of having something rare, while others suffer no real loss in their standard of living. , It is not only in buying expensive things from the past that the rich may seek the distinction of ownership. They can also acquire distinction by buying new products that are too expensive for most other people to buy. When the first television sets were sold around 1940, they were so expensive that only truly wealthy people could afford them. Sales to the rich is what enabled television manufacturers to survive and to have the time to continually improve their product over the years, meanwhile improving their production methods as well, so that by 1980 even poor people could afford television sets far superior to what the rich had paid much higher prices for in earlier years. Nor was television unique. Many products taken for granted today were able to develop to the point of being within the budgets of millions of people only because their high initial costs were paid by the wealthy. An American popular song of the 1920s had lyrics that said: "We won't have it known, dear, that we own a telephone, dear."2 Two generations later, such lyrics would make no sense, because virtually every American had a telephone. Those who look only at a static picture of events as they appear at a given moment often want to heavily tax things that are "luxuries of the rich," without considering that it may be only a matter of time when those very same things will be part of the standard of living of ordinary people. As late as the middle of the twentieth century, college was largely a luxury of the affluent and the wealthy. Had it been heavily taxed, instead of being heavily subsidized, it might well have continued to be a luxury confined to the rich. By 1994, most American households living below the official poverty line had a microwave oven and a video cassette recorder, things that less than one percent of all American households had in 1971. For the population at large, homes were much bigger, automobiles were much better, and more Americans were connected to the Internet at the end of the twentieth century than Were connected to a water supply at the beginning of that century. This was clearly not a zero-sum activity, in which what was gained by some was lost ,