forced out of business-by competition from drive-in fast food restaurants, serving people arriving in automobiles. Although at one time there were hundreds of White Castle hamburger restaurants and only one restaurant operated by the McDonald brothers, by 1996 White Castles sales were just one percent of McDonald's. In a society that is constantly evolving, the conditions surrounding a given company or industry are always changing, and not all business leaders are equally quick to spot the changes or grasp their implications. For example, the changing age-structure of the American population created a huge market for hamburgers as the baby boom generation reached adolescence and young adulthood. The number of Americans aged 18 to 24 years nearly doubled between 1960 and 1980, but then began to drop. Accordingly, the total number of hamburgers sold in the United States eventually dropped for the first time in 1989, as baby boomers began reaching the ages when many people start going to salad bars and upscale restaurants. Such demographic changes, combined with a growing emphasis on the calorie and fat content of foods, and what the Washington Post characterized as a "savage price war with competitor Burger King" all took an economic toll on McDonald's. In 2002, the chain had its first quarter operating at a loss-$390 million in the red-since McDonald's became a public corporation back in 1965. The Economist attributed this to the "top management" at McDonald's being "long-time insiders, shaped by the previous, out-of-date strategy." If so, it would not be the first time that a formula for success became a formula for failure when times changed. Of?1y the future will tell. However, what is already clear is that even the most successful businesses cannot rest on their past achievements. The economic pressures to keep abreast of changes in the industry, the economy and the society force business owners and managers to seek a wide range of knowledge, going beyond the internal management of their own enterprises. Among the responses to this imperative have been trade associations, which provide highly detailed data on what is happening in their respective industries. A trade association for hotels, for example, provides detailed statistics on such things as what percentages of what kinds of hotels provide king-size, queen-size, and twin beds, cable television, voice mail, video games in the rooms, ironing boards, written material in foreign languages, and even what percentage of what kinds of hotels provide liquid soap in their bathrooms. .An individual hotel needs this kind of information because it competes With other hotels, and cannot afford to fall behind in what it provides to the public. Small economy motels do not need to match everything provided by large luxury resorts, but a given small motel cannot afford to fall too far behind other small motels and still expect to survive. LEADERSHIP Given the importance of the human factor and the variability among people-or even with the same person at different ages-it can hardly be surprising that dramatic changes in the relative positions